♪♪
>>> HI, THERE, EVERYONE.
I'M MORGAN RADFORD.
AND WELCOME TO SPECIAL COVERAGE
OF THE FIRST DEMOCRATIC DEBATE
OF THE 2020 ELECTION CYCLE HERE
ON NBC NEWS NOW.
THIS IS A LIVE LOOK AT THE
DEBATE STAGE, WHERE IN JUST
ABOUT AN HOUR, TEN DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES WILL
TAKE THEIR PLACE AT THE PODIUM.
AND INTERESTINGLY, THEY'RE
ACTUALLY STANDING BASED ON THEIR
PUBLIC POLLING.
TAKING THE CENTER POSITION
TONIGHT, ELIZABETH WARREN,
FLANKED BY CORY BOOKER AND BETO
O'ROURKE.
AND JUST CONTEXT ABOUT HOW THIS
NIGHT IS GOING TO WORK.
THE CANDIDATES HAVE 60 SECONDS
TO ANSWER QUESTIONS AND THEN 30
SECONDS TO RESPOND TO
FOLLOW-UPS.
BEFORE TONIGHT BEGINS, WE'RE
HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE ISSUES
THAT MIGHT COME UP AND HOW
DEBATES LIKE THESE HAVE SHAPED
ELECTIONS OF THE PAST.
>> THE DEBATES, THEY ARE FINALLY
HERE.
20 CANDIDATES.
AND WE COME TONIGHT WITH A
FRONT-RUNNER.
JOE BIDEN OUT IN FRONT OF THE
PACK.
HE'S BEING CHASED BY BERNIE
SANDERS IN SECOND PLACE.
A COUPLE OTHER CANDIDATES.
ELIZABETH WARREN, KAMLA HARRIS.
PETE BUTTIGIEG.
AND THEN, YOU HAVE A LOT OF
CANDIDATES OUT THERE.
AN OPPORTUNITY TO GET THEIR
MESSAGE OUT THERE.
IT'S THE BIG QUESTION OF
DEBATES -- DO THEY CHANGE THE
RACE?
AN IMPORTANT AND FUNDAMENTAL
WAY?
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE HISTORY
OF PRIMARY DEBATES, YOU FIND A
LOT OF MOMENTS THAT MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
WE THOUGHT WE MIGHT LOOK BACK AT
SOME OF THE BIGGEST ONES THROUGH
THE YEARS.
THIS ONE INVOLVED A FUTURE
PRESIDENT.
SOME SAY IT WAS THE MOMENT HIS
PRESIDENCY -- ONE OF THE MOMENTS
HIS PRESIDENCY WAS MADE.
THIS WAS IN FEBRUARY OF 1980.
HIS NAME WAS RONALD REAGAN.
HE CAME INTO THAT CAMPAIGN AS
THE REPUBLICAN FRONT-RUNNER.
BUT HE SUFFERED A BIG SURPRISE
IN UPSET LOSS IN THE IOWA
CAUCUSES.
HE LOST TO GEORGE H.W. BUSH, IN
THE IOWA CAUCUSES.
A LOT OF PEOPLE HADN'T HEARD
ABOUT GEORGE H.W. BUSH UNTIL
THAT MOMENT.
BUSH'S FAMOUS LINE, WHEN HE SAID
I HAVE THE BIG MO NOW.
NEW HAMPSHIRE IS THE NEXT TEST.
BUSH CAUGHT REAGAN IN THE POLLS
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
WE NOW KNOW IT.
WHAT HAPPENED THE SATURDAY
BEFORE THE NEW HAMPSHIRE
PRIMARY?
A DEBATE WAS HELD.
IT WAS IN THE HIGH SCHOOL GYM OF
NASHUA HIGH SCHOOL, NASHUA,
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
THERE HAS BEEN A DISPUTE HOW TO
ORGANIZE THE DEBATE.
REAGAN'S CAMPAIGN PUT UP THE
MONEY FOR THE DEBATE.
3,500 BUCKS IS WHAT IT COST.
REAGAN'S CAMPAIGN PUT UP THE
MONEY.
REAGAN AND BUSH COME ON THE
STAGE.
THERE'S A MODERATOR THERE FROM
"THE NATIONAL TELEGRAPH"
NEWSPAPER.
AND REAGAN GETS INTO A FIGHT,
SOME SAY PICKS A FIGHT WITH THE
MODERATOR.
AND HE IS SAYING, THERE'S OTHER
CANDIDATES THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
INCLUDED.
HE SAID, TURN OFF HIS
MICROPHONE.
TURN OFF THE CANDIDATE'S
I'LL SHOW YOU WHAT HAPPENED.
>> YOU TURN THAT MICROPHONE OFF.
>> I AM PAYING FOR THIS
MICROPHONE.
>> A GAME-CHANGING MOMENT.
THERE WAS FIRE IN REAGAN'S
DELIVERY THERE.
BROUGHT THE CROWD TO ITS FEET.
IT MADE BUSH LOOK SMALL.
THAT SCENE PLAYED OUT, THE OTHER
CANDIDATES, REAGAN GOT UP, HE
SHOOK THEIR HANDS.
AND BUSH WAS A BYSTANDER.
REAGAN TOOK THE LEAD, ENDED UP
WINNING NEW HAMPSHIRE, IN A
LANDSLIDE OVER BUSH.
WINNING THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINATION.
REAGAN IS THE NEXT PRESIDENT.
HE MAKES BUSH HIS V.P.
BUSH BECOMES THE PRESIDENT.
THAT WAS THAT MOMENT, IT SAVED
THE REAGAN CAMPAIGN.
SAVED WHAT WOULD BECOME THE
REAGAN PRESIDENCY.
>> THAT WAS NBC'S STEVE
KORNACKI.
AND TONIGHT'S DEBATE IS SURE TO
PAVE THE WAY FOR THE 2020
ELECTION.
ALL TEN CANDIDATES ON STAGE
TONIGHT WILL TRY TO STAND OUT
AMONG THE SEA OF DEMOCRATS WHO
ARE HOPING TO CHALLENGE
PRESIDENT TRUMP NEXT NOVEMBER.
HERE TO HELP ME PREVIEW WHAT WE
CAN EXPECT TO SEE ON THE DEBATE
STAGE, WE HAVE REPUBLICAN
POLITICAL CONSULTANT, SIR
MICHAEL SINGLETON.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HOW MUCH IS TONIGHT GOING TO BE
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
POLICIES?
HOW DO THE CANDIDATES WALK THAT
FINE LINE BETWEEN TRYING TO
DISTINGUISH THEIR OWN PLATFORM
BUT ALSO PROVING TO THEIR BASE
THEY CAN TAKE PRESIDENT TRUMP
ON?
>> I THINK TONIGHT IS DOING A
LITTLE BIT OF BOTH.
THE SEPARATION AND THE PHOTOS
FROM THE A.P. YESTERDAY OF THE
DEAD MIGRANTS, THE FATHER AND
THE DAUGHTER, I THINK THAT'S
GOING TO MAKE THE IMMIGRATION
POLICY DISCUSSION MORE OF A
CENTRAL FOCUS, THAN IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN GOING INTO TONIGHT.
I THINK THE CANDIDATES HAVE,
BOTH, AN EQUAL TASK.
THEY HAVE TO BOTH SAY WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO DO ABOUT IT.
RIGHT?
THE OVERRESPONSE WOULD BE
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
I THINK THERE NEEDS TO BE MORE
MEAT ON THE BONES.
YOU CAN'T SAY THE PLATITUDES
THAT YOU USED TO SAY.
NOW, IT'S AN EMERGENCY, WHICH
REQUIRES A SERIOUS SOLUTION.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, THAT PUTS
ELIZABETH WARREN AND CASTRO WHO
HAVE PUT TOGETHER SPECIFIC
POLICY IDEAS, THAT GIVES THEM A
LEG UP BECAUSE OF WHERE THE NEWS
CYCLE IS RIGHT NOW.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THEY HAVE TO
SAY WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO
THAT IS DIFFERENT THAN DONALD
TRUMP.
WHO ARE THEY AS A PROGRESSIVE?
IF THEY'RE A NEW CANDIDATE, WHO
VOTERS AREN'T FAMILIAR WITH.
OR MAYBE THEY KNOW ONE THING
ABOUT ELIZABETH WARREN, LIKE THE
DNA TEST.
SHE HAS A PLAN BUT THEY'RE NOT
SURE ABOUT HER AS A PERSON AND
HER CHARISMA.
IT'S A CHALLENGE ON BOTH SIDES.
I THINK IMMIGRATION WILL BE THE
POLICY FOCUS.
>> YOU BRING UP A GOOD POINT
ABOUT HOW THE CANDIDATES WILL
ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO DISTINGUISH
THEMSELVES IN A FIELD THAT'S SO
LARGE.
SIR MICHAEL, WHEN I'VE BEEN IN
THE FIELD, EVERY VOTER TELLS ME
THEY WANT SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
THEY LOVE THAT HE'S
ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT.
>> I CALL TONIGHT THE NIGHT OF
IDEAS.
YOU HAVE CASTRO AND BOOKER AND
WARREN.
SOME OF THE MOST SUBSTANTIVE
IDEA OF ALL OF THE 25 DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATES.
I THINK DEMOCRATS ARE
MOTIVATED -- VOTERS ARE
MOTIVATED TO BEAT TRUMP.
THEY DON'T CARE WHO THE NOMINEE
IS.
I THINK TONIGHT, FOR MANY OF THE
INDIVIDUALS ON THE STAGE, IT'S
GOING TO BE -- NOT ONLY HOW CAN
I GET IT DONE?
EVEN IF YOU ARE ABLE TO WIN IN
2020, WHAT ABOUT THE SENATE?
VOTERS WILL ASK, THESE ARE GREAT
IDEAS.
HOW CAN YOU GET IT DONE IN THIS
DIVIDED CONGRESS?
I THINK IT'S INTERESTING THAT
THEY'RE HAVING THIS DEBATE IN
MIAMI.
FLORIDA IS A VERY, VERY CRITICAL
STATE.
DONALD TRUMP JUST RELAUNCHED HIS
RE-ELECTION BID LAST WEEK IN
CENTRAL FLORIDA.
>> ALL EYES ON FLORIDA.
>> WHY?
THE LAST REPUBLICAN TO WIN THE
WHITE HOUSE WITHOUT FLORIDA WAS
CALVIN COOLIDGE IN 1924.
A REPUBLICAN CANNOT WIN THE
WHITE HOUSE, ARGUABLY SPEAKING,
WITHOUT FLORIDA.
I THINK DEMOCRATS RECOGNIZE
THIS.
THE IDEA IS IF YOU CAN TAKE
AWAY, A LITTLE BIT OF THE
SUPPORT, DONALD TRUMP WON THE
STATE BY 1.2%, THAT'S 100,000
VOTES, YOU COULD SEE A DEMOCRAT
WIN IN 2020.
>> I THINK THE FIRST PERSON TO
BRING UP PUERTO RICO IS PROBABLY
SOMEBODY WHO IS ACKNOWLEDGING
THAT DYNAMIC.
>> YOU WOULD AGREE WITH THAT?
>> I AGREE.
>> I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
LEADER OF TONIGHT'S PACK,
ELISABETH WARREN.
SHE IS POLLING AT ABOUT 13%.
IS IT GOING TO BE A DISADVANTAGE
TO NOT BE ON THE STAGE WITH JOE
BIDEN, WHO IS REALLY THE
FRONT-RUNNER OF ALL OF THE
CANDIDATES?
>> I DON'T THINK THAT'S A
DISADVANTAGE AT ALL.
VOTERS ARE TUNING IN FOR THE
FIRST TIME TONIGHT.
THIS IS WHEN THE OPINIONS WILL
BE CRYSTALLIZING.
AND THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
ELIZABETH WARREN TO SORT OF, I
THINK, STRADDLE THAT FINE LINE
THAT CAN BE DIFFICULT IN THE
FIRST DEBATE, WHICH IS INTRODUCE
HERSELF, SO THAT YOU CAN GO
TOE-TO-TOE WITH DONALD TRUMP.
BUT DON'T ENGAGE IN A FOOD
FIGHT.
VOTERS DON'T WANT TO SEE PEOPLE
NAGGING ON EACH OTHER.
THEY WANT TO HEAR IDEAS AND IT
HAS BEEN ELIZABETH WARREN
LEADING THE BACK IN TERMS OF
POLICY IDEAS AND BEING THE FIRST
CANDIDATE TO VISIT THE HOMESTEAD
FACILITY, WHICH IS 20 MILES AWAY
FROM THE DEBATE FACILITY.
I THINK FLORIDA IS AN
INTERESTING -- TONIGHT IS AN
INTERESTING CONFLUENCE OF
EVENTS.
YOU HAVE TRUMP ENGAING WITH ALL
OF THIS IMMIGRATION, IT'S COMING
TO A HEAD.
HIS TREATMENT OF MIGRANT
CHILDREN.
BEING EXPOSED FOR WHAT IT IS,
PRETTY APPALLING, HORRENDOUS
CONDITIONS.
>> NOW, WE HAVE THE IMAGES TO GO
WITH IT.
>> THE REPORT HAS A COPY OF
THAT, WHICH IS EMBARRASSING, YOU
KNOW, CONDITIONS THAT WERE
KEEPING THESE CHILDREN IN.
AND YOU HAVE THESE DEMOCRATS WHO
ARE ALL COME TOGETHER.
SOME HAVE IMMIGRATION PLANS AND
OTHERS DON'T HAVE PLANS FOR THAT
AT ALL.
WHEN YOU HAVE THE THINGS LIKE
THE CRISIS IN VENEZUELA GOING
ON, AND THE VOTERS NOT BEING A
M
MONOLITH, IT'S IMPORTANT IN
FLORIDA.
>> I'M SO EXCITED I HAVE YOU
HERE FOR THE REST OF THE NIGHT.
LET ME GO TO DR. BURNS, WHO IS
WATCHING THE DEBATE WITH A FEW
COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
HOW IS IT GOING THERE?
WHAT ARE THE YOUNG VOTERS
SAYING?
>> HAPPY DEBATE NIGHT.
I HAVE AN AMAZING GROUP OF
COLLEGE STUDENTS HERE FROM
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND ACROSS
THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM.
REPUBLICANS, DEMOCRATS,
INDEPENDENTS.
WE HAVE WEST VIRGINIA
REPRESENTED, FLORIDA, NEW YORK.
A LOT OF DIFFERENT VIEWS AND
OPINIONS.
I WANT TO START YOU WITH YOUR
EXPECTATIONS FOR THE NIGHT.
YOU HAVE FOLKS THAT ARE
INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE FROM.
THERE'S A LOT OF BIG NAMES ON
THAT STAGE AND LESSER KNOWN
ONES.
WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR FROM
THE CANDIDATES AND FOR THE
LESSER-KNOWN NAMES?
WHAT CAN THEY DO TO CAPTURE YOUR
INTEREST AND GET YOUR SUPPORT?
>> I WOULD SAY FOR THOSE
CANDIDATES THAT ARE NOT WELL
KNOWN TO TRY TO STAY AWAY FROM
CRITICISM OF DONALD TRUMP.
COMING FROM THE LIBERAL
PERSPECTIVE.
WE KNOW WHAT DONALD TRUMP IS.
WE KNOW WHAT HE STANDS FOR.
SO, RIGHT NOW, I WANT TO HEAR
ABOUT WHAT SPECIFIC POLICY
THEY'RE GOING TO PUT IN PLACE
AND HOW THAT'S GOING TO BE ABLE
TO HELP YOUNG PEOPLE LIKE US.
>> I'M PARTICULARLY INTERESTED
IN SEEING JAY INSLEE.
HE AND A FEW OTHER CANDIDATES
MIGHT COME ACROSS AS A SINGLE
ISSUE CANDIDATE.
HE IS FOCUSED ON CLIMATE CHANGE.
I THINK THAT'S THE MOST PRESSING
ISSUE OF OUR TIME.
I'M INTERESTED TO SEE THE PLAY
BETWEEN CLIMATE CHANGE AND OTHER
ISSUES.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE UGLINESS OF
CLIMATE REFUGEES IN THE NEXT FEW
DECADES.
AND I'M INTERESTED IN SEEING HE
AMONG OTHER CANDIDATES ADDRESS
THE PRESSING ISSUES OF OUR
ECONOMY AND THE JUSTICE SYSTEM.
>> YOU MENTION CLIMATE.
A LOT OF SURVEYS SAY THAT'S ONE
OF THE BIG ISSUES FOR YOUNG
VOTERS.
WHO DO YOU THINK SO FAR HAS DONE
THE BEST JOB OF SORT OF
AUTHENTICALLY REACHING YOUNGER
DEMOGRAPHICS?
AND WHAT CAN CANDIDATES DO TO
TAKE THAT TO THE NEXT LEVEL?
I THINK HE'S DONE TO REACHING
OUT TO THE YOUTH.
ELIZABETH WARREN HAS DONE THE
SAME.
HE'S ONE OF THE LESSER KNOWN
NAMES.
FOR STUDENT DEBT.
THAT'S WHAT I'M LOOKING FOR.
THAT WOULD SET HIM APART FROM
ALL OF THE CANDIDATES.
THEY DON'T LIKE DONALD TRUMP.
BUT WE NEED TO KNOW WHAT THEY'RE
GOING TO DO.
>> IN WEST VIRGINIA, WE'RE IN
THE RUST BELT.
AN HOUR SOUTH OF PITTSBURGH.
EVERYONE IS LEAVING.
THEY GET THEIR COLLEGE DEGREES
OR IF YOU'RE FROM THERE, THEY'RE
LEAVING.
WHAT ARE THE CANDIDATES GOING TO
DO TO HELP PEOPLE FIND JOBS IN
THEIR HOME?
THAT'S SO IMPORTANT.
WHEN YOU HAVE A STATE THAT'S
LOSING POPULATION, WHAT KIND OF
JOBS ARE YOU GOING TO BRING TO
THE TABLE SO PEOPLE CAN STAY
HOME IN THAT ENTIRE PART OF
AMERICA.
AND THAT'S SO BIG.
>> PEOPLE ARE FOCUSED ON ACTUAL
POLICY.
AND IT'S EVEN KNOW, THAT'S WHAT
YOU WANT TO HEAR.
HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK THE
CANDIDATES TALK ABOUT DONALD
TRUMP?
OR SHOULD THEY AVOID THAT
ALTOGETHER?
>> AT KNOT AT ALL.
THEY SHOULDN'T TALK ABOUT TRUMP
AT ALL.
THEY SHOULD BE FOCUSED ON THEIR
POLICIES.
NO CANDIDATE HAS THAT MUCH TIME
WHEN THEY CAN REALLY GO ON TO
ALL OF THEIR POLICIES.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHICH POLICIES THEY FOCUS ON.
AND WHEN YOU HAVE A SHORT AMOUNT
OF TIME, YOU'RE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO SPEND ALL YOUR TIME
TALKING ABOUT TRUMP OR GO OVER
EVERYTHING BROADLY.
THESE CANDIDATES HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW WHAT THEY
CARE ABOUT AND WHAT THEY'RE
GOING TO PUT INTO THEIR
CAMPAIGNS.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO STAY IN
THEIR LANES.
>> GOING OFF OF YOUR POINT
AGAIN, IT'S LIKE THERE'S WAY TOO
MANY CANDIDATES.
THERE'S ONLY GOING TO BE SO MUCH
TIME THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE
TO HEAR ABOUT SPECIFIC POLICIES
THEY WANT TO PUT FORWARD.
ME, PERSONALLY, I WANT TO SEE
WHAT CANDIDATES ARE GOING TO
ENDORSE PRISON REFORM.
LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA HAS
LED INTO THE CONVERSATION OF
INCARCERATION OF THOSE THAT ARE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND REPARATIONS
FOR THAT COMMUNITY, AS WELL.
BEING SPECIFIC WHAT THEY'RE
GOING TO OFFER US.
A LOT OF TIMES THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY LIKES TO PANDER TO THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY.
BUT WHEN THEY GO INTO OFFICE,
THEY DON'T PUT THE POLICIES INTO
PLAY.
>> A LOT TO TALK ABOUT.
AND EVERY MINUTE COUNTS.
>> WE ARE GIVEN FOOD FOR
THOUGHT.
JOY SAID THERE'S TOO MANY
CANDIDATES.
WE WANT TO KEEP TRACK FOR YOU
GUYS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>>> STAY WITH US RIGHT HERE ON
NBC NEWS NOW, AS WE HEAD INTO
THE DEBATE IN LESS THAN ONE
HOUR.
>>> THE IMAGE OF A FATHER AND
DAUGHTER WHO DROWNED WHILE
TRYING TO CROSS THE BORDER FROM
MEXICO INTO THE UNITED STATES
HAS BROUGHT MORE ATTENTION TO
THE ISSUE OF IMMIGRATION.
AND SOME ARGUE THAT
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE I.C.E. NEED
TO BE ABOLISHED COMPLETELY.
JACOB SOBOROFF BREAKS DOWN WHERE
THE CANDIDATES STAND ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>> Reporter: IT IS 2020 TIME.
WE'RE DOING OUR BEST TO HELP YOU
KEEP TRACK OF THE BIG ISSUES AND
WHERE THE CANDIDATES STAND ON
THINGS LIKE ABOLISHING I.C.E.
WE LOOK AT CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT
INSIDE THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY.
THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL PART OF
I.C.E. IS ITS REMOVAL OFFICE.
UNDER PRESIDENT
DEPORTED MORE PEOPLE THAN
ANYBODY EVER, IT TARGETED
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS.
UNDER PRESIDENT TRUMP, IT'S
GOING AFTER PEOPLE HERE
ILLEGALLY.
SOME SAY THAT I.C.E. HAS GONE
TOO FAR.
AND SOME ARE ATTACKING THE
ORGANIZATION.
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND JOINED A
HANDFUL OF OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
PARTY PUSHING FOR I.C.E. TO BE
ABOLISHED ALTOGETHER.
ADDING IMMIGRATION ISSUES WOULD
BE SEPARATE FROM CRIMINAL
ENFORCEMENT.
ELIZABETH WARREN FOLLOWED SUIT.
SHE SAID BECAUSE TRUMP WAS SO,
QUOTE, DEEPLY IMMORAL ON
IMMIGRATION, THE SYSTEM SHOULD
BE REFORMED.
CASTRO IS CALLING FOR I.C.E. TO
BE SPLIT UP AND GOING BACK TO
DEPORTING ONLY THE PEOPLE WHO
COMMIT CRIMES OR ARE A NATIONAL
SECURITY THREAT.
WHAT DO MOST AMERICANS THINK
ABOUT ALL THIS?
ONLY 24% OF AMERICANS ACTUALLY
SUPPORT ABOLISHING THE AGENCY.
AMONG DEMOCRATS, 43% SAID THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD GET RID OF
I.C.E.
34%, THINK IT SHOULD STAY.
THIS, AMONG OTHER ISSUES, IS ONE
OF THE POLICIES THAT WE'LL SEE
HOW FAR LEFT THE DEMOCRATS
DECIDE TO GO.
>>> WE'RE BRINGING BACK OUR
PANEL TO DIVE DEEPER ON
IMMIGRATION AND WHAT WE MIGHT
EXPECT TO HEAR ON THE STAGE
TONIGHT.
WE HAVE A NEW ADDITION, ALEX
THOMPSON.
THE MARSHAL PROJECT SAID FOR THE
LAST 25 YEARS, EVERY PRESIDENT
HAS SEEN A GROWTH OF THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN DETENTION
FACILITIES WHEN IT COMES TO
IMMIGRATION.
IS THERE ANY CANDIDATE YOU THINK
THAT HAS A POLICY PLATFORM THAT
CAN REVERSE THAT TREND?
>> I THINK, CASTRO AND WARREN
HAVE COME OUT TO REPEAL THE
CRIMINALIZATION STATUTE OF
PEOPLE THAT CROSS THE BORDER
ILLEGALLY.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHAT CASTRO SAYS BECAUSE MUCH OF
THAT CAMEBURG THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, WHEN HE WAS
SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT.
>> IS THERE ANY POLICY PLATFORM
YOU THINK WOULD SOLVE THE
IMMIGRATION ISSUE?
>> I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR FROM ANY
OF THE CANDIDATES A POLICY THAT
SPECIFICALLY TALKS ABOUT WORKING
WITH THOSE COUNTRIES.
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW YOU
DECREASE CRIME.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TRIED
BY PUMPING IN MONEY.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S ENOUGH.
I THINK YOU HAVE TO PUT BOOTS ON
THE GROUND, POLICY FOLKS.
MAYBE SEND SOME MILITARY IN TO
TRAIN THE LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
THE MILITARY.
THIS WOULD BE A ROBUST
INITIATIVE.
IF YOU HELP LOWER CRIME, PEOPLE
WON'T WANT TO COME TO AMERICA.
YOU HAVE TO PUT MONEY IN TO
REVIVAL THE ECONOMY, AS WELL.
THAT'S A PROACTIVE, REALISTIC
LONG-TERM STRATEGY.
THAT COULD BE SUCCESSFUL AND
RECEIVE SUPPORT FROM REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS WE HEARD
WAS THE ABOLISHMENT OF I. XRCHLT
I.C.E.
AND WE SEE SENATOR WARREN
STARTING TO WALK BACK THE
ENDORSEMENT OF ABOLISHING ICE.
IF THEY SAY THEY.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE WE'RE NOT GOING
TO HAVE POLICE ON THE BORDER
PROTECTING PEOPLE, AMERICAN
CITIZENS, FROM POTENTIAL
CRIMINAL ELEMENTS THAT ARE
TRYING TO CROSS, RIGHT?
THAT'S NOT HAPPENING.
BUT THE ISSUE IS COMPLICATED,
IT'S A HARD DISTINCTION FOR
CANDIDATES TO MAKE IN 60
SECONDS.
I THINK THEY CAN BE MORE
COMPASSIONATE IN THEIR LANGUAGE,
TALKING ABOUT THE CAUSES TO WHY
PEOPLE ARE COMING HERE.
ONE OF THE THINGS I LEARNED IN
2015 WHEN I TRAVELED TO THE
BORDER IN ARIZONA, BEFORE ALL OF
THIS, WAS THAT I HAD IT WRONG.
WE SAY THAT PEOPLE ARE COMING TO
THE UNITED STATES FOR A BETTER
LIFE.
THEY'RE COMING HERE FOR WORK.
TO CORRECT THAT, THEY ARE COMING
HERE TO BE REUNITED WITH THEIR
FAMILY MEMBERS.
MANY OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING
CHARGED WITH ILLEGAL RE-ENTRY,
WHICH IS THE TOP FELONY CHARGE
IN THE UNITED STATES, HAD BEEN
PREVIOUSLY DEPORTED AND ARE
TRYING TO GET BACK, REUNITED
WITH THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS.
IF YOUR DAUGHTER, YOUR WIFE,
YOUR SISTER, BROTHER, HERE ON
THIS SIDE OF THE BORDER, AN
INVISIBLE LINE, WHAT WOULD YOU
DO TO BE REUNITED WITH YOUR WIFE
OR YOUR BABY?
AND I THINK THAT WHEN YOU PUT IT
IN HUMAN TERMS, THAT FRAME, I
THINK THE ISSUE RESONATES WITH
PEOPLE IN A DIFFERENT WAY THAN
SAYING THEY'RE DOING IT FOR
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY.
ALSO, YOU NEED TO FOLLOW THAT UP
WITH SPECIFIC PLANS ON HOW YOU
NEED TO FIX THIS BROKEN SYSTEM.
IT'S ALSO ABOUT EMPATHY AND
THESE SANCTION WARE CITIES.
A CITY LIKE NEW YORK IS A
SANCTUARY CITY.
IS THIS AN OPPORTUNITY AND AN
ISSUE THAT THESE CANDIDATES WHO
ARE POLLING AT 1%, OR IN THE
SINGLE DIGITS, COULD STAND OUT
ON?
LIKE MAYOR DE BLASIO.
>> IT WOULD BE INTERESTING.
DEMOCRATS HAVE CREEDED A LOT OF
THIS GROUND TO TRUMP IN THIS
DEBATE.
ONE THING YOU HEAR IS
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
THERE'S FEW CANDIDATES GOING ON
THE OFFENSE.
THIS OPENS UP A LANE FOR SOMEONE
LIKE MAYOR DE BLASIO WHO WANTS
TO MAKE THIS A SIGNATURE ISSUE.
>> WANT TO THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US NOW.
STAY TUNED TO NBC NEWS NOW.
>>> ASIDE FROM POLICY, ANOTHER
WAY THAT DEMOCRATIC CONTENDERS
WITH STAND OUT, IS THROUGH THEIR
WARDROBE.
WE LOOK AT POWER DRESSING AND
THE SENSATION OF APPEARANCE CAN
BE AN ADVANTAGE FOR THE FEMALE
CONTENDERS.
>> WE'RE KNOWN TO DRESS BILLIE
JEAN KING.
WE DID DRESS HILLARY WHEN SHE
WAS SECRETARY OF STATE, NOT
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT.
ELIZABETH WARREN.
ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
DEBATES AND HOW IT CHANGED THE
WAY WE THINK ABOUT TELEVISION,
THE KENNEDY/NIXON DEBATE.
NIXON CAME IN AND HE CHOSE A
LIGHTER-COLORED SUIT THAT
BLENDED IN WITH THE BROUPD.
KENNEDY WAS IN A DARKER SUIT.
WHEN YOU'RE ON TELEVISION, YOU
NEED TO KNOW WHAT THE BACKGROUND
IS GOING TO BE AND WHETHER THE
COLOR YOU'RE WEARING WILL BLEND
WITH THE BACKGROUND ORE CONFLICT
WITH THE BACKGROUND.
IT'S INTERESTING THAT MORE WOMEN
ARE RUNNING, BUT TO THINK THAT
THE GUY IN THE SUIT WITH THE RED
TIE OR THE BLUE TIE IS POWERFUL.
THE CHALLENGE THAT MOST OF UR
IMAGES OF LEADERSHIP STILL IS
MALE.
I THINK THERE'S A STRONG,
UNCONSCIOUS BIAS, FOR MEN, AS
LEADERSHIP ROLES.
>> EARLIER THIS MONTH, YOU SAID
SHE DOESN'T HAVE A, QUOTE,
PRESIDENTIAL LOOK.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY THAT?
>> SHE DOESN'T HAVE THE LOOK.
SHE DOESN'T HAVE THE STAMINA.
>> WOMEN HAVE TO OVERCOME THAT
AND PORTRAY THEMSELVES WITH AN
IMAGE OF CONFIDENCE, WITH AN
IMAGE OF AUTHORITY.
BUT NOT TOO STRONG BECAUSE IF
IT'S TOO STRONG, YOU'RE SEEN AS
NOT LIKABLE.
FOR WOMEN, I THINK A JACKET THAT
LOOKS MORE EQUIVALENT TO A MAN'S
SUIT, BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, A
BIT OF STYLE MATTERS.
IT IS REALLY IMPORTANT WHERE THE
SLEEVES HIT, WHERE THE COLLAR,
THE HIGH COLLAR, MAKES PEOPLE
LOOK MORE CONFIDENT.
I FIND THAT WOMEN WHO WEAR
THREE-QUARTER LENGTH JACKETS
LOOK MORE POWERFUL.
WHAT WE SHOULD BE TALKING ABOUT,
IS CANDIDATES' POSITION AND
THEIR MESSAGES AND WHAT THEY
WOULD DO IF ELECTED.
BUT BECAUSE WOMEN ARE GENERALLY
DRESSING MORE INDIVIDUALLY, IT
DOES BECOME A TOPIC OF
CONVERSATION.
AND I THINK IT'S A GREAT
ADVANTAGE THAT WOMEN HAVE, TO BE
ABLE TO DISTINGUISH THEMSELVES
AND THEIR STYLE AND SET
THEMSELVES APART.
WE'RE ALL MEMORABLE.
WE WILL TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT AND
MAKE IT WORK FOR US.
>> IN TERMS OF COLOR, I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT COLORS ARE
SOLID AND BRIGHT.
BLUE IS A COLOR THAT ALMOST
EVERYONE LIKES.
RED IS FLATTERING FOR MOST
PEOPLE.
SOLID COLOR IS ALWAYS IMPORTANT
ON TELEVISION.
YOU CAN DO PATTERNS BUT NOT TOO
BOLD.
PASSION NOES ARE EASY.
ANYTHING THAT IS BUSY IS NOT
GOOD.
ANYTHING THAT IS ILL FITTING IS
NOT GOOD.
MAYBE YOU WILL BE SITTING ON A
STOOL.
YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT HOW IT LOOKS
WHEN YOU SIT AND STAND.
MY PERSONAL RECOMMENDATION IS
THAT YOU NOT WEAR A VERY
EXPENSIVE DESIGNER PIECE.
IT HAS TO LOOK FAMILIAR.
IT HAS TO BE SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE LOOK AT AND FEEL
COMFORTABLE WITH.
PEOPLE ARE MUCH MORE CONSCIOUS
THAT IMAGE MATTERS.
ONCE PEOPLE LOOK AT YOU, IT'S
ONLY A FEW SECONDS THAT THEY
HAVE FORMED AN OPINION.
SO, THE CLOTHING IS REALLY THE
FIRST PART OF IT.
THIS CLOTHING AND THE VISUAL
IMAGE.
PEOPLE TREAT YOU WITH MORE
RESPECT AND THEY'RE MORE
DIFFERENTIAL WHEN YOU ARE
DRESSED WELL.
>>> BEYOND THE WARDROBE OF THE
CANDIDATES, VOTERS SAY THEY ALSO
CARE ABOUT THEIR WALLETS.
A RECENT POLL BY REAL CLEAR
OPINION RESEARCH FOUND THAT
AMERICAN VOTERS RANK THE ECONOMY
SECOND-MOST IMPORTANT ON THEIR
LIST OF CONCERNS.
THAT WAS BEHIND HEALTH CARE.
LET'S BRING BACK OUR GUESTS.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE ISSUES OF
TONIGHT.
DONALD TRUMP HAS MADE MUCH ADO
ABOUT THE SUCCESS OF THE ECONOMY
OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS.
HOW CAN DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES
CONVINCE THEIR BASE THAT A
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT CAN BRING A
STRONGER ECONOMY THAN PRESIDENT
TRUMP?
>> THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
AS WE'VE SEEN WITH THE
PRESIDENT, HE'S LESS
DISCIPLINED.
MORE THAT HE TRIES TO PORTRAY
THAT MESSAGE, MORE THAT THE
DEMOCRATS' MESSAGE WILL
RESONATE.
THE WAY THAT THE DEMOCRATS ARE
TACKLING IT, FROM ALTERNATIVE
POINTS OF VIEW, HOW CLIMATE
CHANGE AFFECTS THE ECONOMY.
AND LOOKING AT MORE FROM A
HIGH-TO-LOW, RATHER THAN THE
TRADITIONAL STOCK MARKET WHO IS
BENEFITTING IN A TRADITIONAL
WAY.
THE PRESIDENT CAN USE THE
ECONOMY TO THESE CANDIDATES'
ADVANTAGES.
>> AND YOU MENTIONED THE CLIMATE
CHANGE, WHICH IS SOMETHING WE
HEARD THE COLLEGE STUDENTS JUST
MENTION.
SHERMICHAEL, FOR A CANDIDATE
LIKE INSLEE, A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
CONCERNED THAT YOU MIGHT LOSE
SOME OF THE BLUE COLLAR JOBS.
HOW DO YOU CONVINCE THOSE VOTERS
TO GET ONBOARD?
>> YOU'RE TALKING TO A VERY
SMALL PERCENTAGE OF VOTERS IN
THE OVERALL DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
IF YOU DO WIN THE GENERAL,
YOU'LL HAVE A MUCH BROADER BASE
OF PEOPLE YOU HAVE TO ARTICULATE
TO.
AND KEEP IN MIND, PRESIDENTS ARE
DIFFICULT TO BEAT.
ONLY THREE PRESIDENTS HAVE LOST
RE-ELECTION.
ONLY 3 IN THE PAST 100 YEARS.
DESPITE HOW CRAZY DONALD TRUMP
MIGHT BE, TO BE ABLE TO RUN ON A
STRONG ECONOMY IS A VERY, VERY
BIG DEAL.
FOR THE DEMOCRATS, YOU DON'T
WANT TO FALL INTO A TRAP OF
BEATING UP ON EACH OTHER WHERE
YOU BRING IN ALL OF THE
COALITIONS, FACTIONS OF GROUPS
OF PEOPLE.
SOME FOLKS MAY STAY HOME BECAUSE
THEIR GUY DIDN'T WIN, I.E.
BERNIE SANDERS VOTERS.
WHILE I UNDERSTAND THE LOUD,
SMALL PERCENTAGE, VOCAL GROUP
WITHIN THE PARTY, PROGRESSIVE,
LIKE THIS IDEA OF THE GREEN NEW
DEAL, YOU CANNOT ISOLATE SOME OF
THOSE BLUE COLLAR VOTERS WHO WE
SAW IN 2016 VOTED FOR DONALD
TRUMP.
YOU LOOK AT THE PRECINCT MAP IN
WISCONSIN AND IOWA, THEY VOTED
FOR OBAMA TWICE.
DON'T MAKE THOSE MISTAKES AGAIN.
>> CANDIDATE DELANEY SAID THE
GREEN, NEW DEAL WAS AS
UNREALISTIC AS TRUMP'S PROMISE
THAT MEXICO WAS GOING TO PAY FOR
THE WALL.
TRUE OR FALSE?
>> REPRESENTATIVE DELANEY HAS
MADE -- WAS THE MODERATE
CANDIDATE.
NOW, THE ANTI-SOCIALIST, THE
ANTI-BERNIE.
ANYTIME THERE'S AN AGGRESSIVE
PROPOSAL, LIKE THE GREEN NEW
DEAL, MEDICARE FOR ALL, THESE
GONE OUT OF HIS WAY TO GO AFTER
PROGRESSIVE AUDIENCES AND
ANTAGONIZE THEM.
TO HOPE THEY'RE NOT MODERATE
PRIMARY VOTERS WHO WILL GET THEM
THERE AND MAKE THAT BROAD APPEAL
THAT HE WAS TALKING ABOUT.
IF HE MAKES THAT STATEMENT TODAY
ON THE STAGE, I DON'T IMAGINE
THE CROWD IS GOING TO BE
CHEERING.
>> AND THE QUESTION IS, WHAT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH THE MORE
MODERATE CANDIDATES, LIKE A
KLOBUCHAR.
EVEN BETO COMING FROM A RED
STATE BACKGROUND.
HOW ARE THEY GOING TO ADDRESS
THEIR PARTY?
I WANT TO GO BACK TO DASCHA
BURNS.
HOW IMPORTANT IS THE ECONOMY TO
THE STUDENTS YOU'RE SPEAKING
WITH TONIGHT?
>> IT'S HARD TO TALK ABOUT THE
ECONOMY WITHOUT TALKING ABOUT
STUDENT DEBT.
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT'S GOING TO
HAVE A BIGGER AND BIGGER IMPACT
ON THE FUTURE OF THIS COUNTRY
AND ON THE FUTURE OF YOUR
GENERATION.
GUYS, TONIGHT, WHAT DO YOU WANT
TO HEAR FROM THE CANDIDATES ON
THIS, SPECIFICALLY?
AND HOW BIG OF A FACTOR IS IT IN
WHO GETS YOUR VOTE AND GETS YOUR
SUPPORT?
>> I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF US
THAT WOULD GET OUR SUPPORT THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE STUDENTS.
GOING INTO THIS ECONOMY.
AND THERE'S A WIDE RANGE OF
OPINIONS ON THE STUDENT DEB
RELIEF OR FORGIVENESS.
IDEAS THAT CANDIDATES HAVE.
I WILL LOOK FOR THEM TO
ARTICULATE THEIR PLANS FOR
STUDENT DEBT.
>> I THINK IT WILL BE GOOD.
1.5 TRILLION JUST FROM STUDENT
DEBT.
NOT ONLY HOW THEY PROVIDE FREE
COLLEGE, BUT WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DO WITH THE DEBT WE HAVE
RIGHT NOW AND TO AVOID THAT
FUTURE STUDENTS GET ON THAT
DEBT.
>> SPEAKING OF AFTER COLLEGE,
WHO IS THINKING ABOUT AND
WORRIED ABOUT GETTING A JOB
AFTER YOU GRADUATE?
HAVE THESE CANDIDATES DONE
ENOUGH TO ARTICULATE HOW THEY'RE
PLANNING TO INVEST IN YOUR
FUTURES?
>> NO.
>> CAN THEY DO THAT TONIGHT?
>> MAYBE IN TIME.
BUT WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THEM DO
THAT.
THE VOTER BASE IS A HUGE PART OF
THE POPULATION.
AND I THINK OUR VOTES COULD MAKE
A BIG DIFFERENCE.
>> IT WILL REQUIRE TO DEFINE
WHAT EDUCATION IS TONIGHT.
IT REQUIRES GOING BEYOND THE
FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE MODEL.
TO BE MORE IN APPRENTICESHIPS
AND CO-OPS AND UNIVERSITY.
THAT'S WHAT I THINK IS IMPORTANT
WHEN I THINK ABOUT THE ECONOMY
OF THE FUTURE.
IT WON'T ALL BE THE FOUR-YEAR
DEGREE.
>> DO YOU WANT TO SEE MORE
OPTIONS?
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT WEST
VIRGINIA AND WHAT THE JOB MARKET
IS LIKE THERE.
CAN YOU TALK MORE ABOUT THAT?
>> WE SAW THE BLUE COLLAR JOBS.
THE FOSSIL FUEL AND THE ENERGY
INDUSTRY IS HARD HIT UNDER THE
EIGHT YEARS OF PRESIDENT OBAMA.
WE'RE STARTING TO SEE A REVIVAL
OF THOSE INDUSTRIES UNDER
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
I THINK IT WILL BE IMPORTANT,
THAT PLACES LIKE WEST VIRGINIA,
WE SEE INVESTMENT IN ALL KINDS
OF TRAINING PROGRAMS, IN COST
TUITION IS SOMETHING ELSE, THAT
IS CONCERNING TO WEST
VIRGINIANS.
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHERE I
GO, IS KNOWN AS CROSS COUNTRY
FOR ITS CHEAP TUITION.
BUT TUITION IS GOING UP EVERY
YEAR.
THAT GOES BACK TO STUDENT DEBT,
ARE THE CANDIDATES GOING TO LOOK
AT THE COST OF SCHOOL?
AND RETHINKING EDUCATION.
IT WILL TAKE ALL WALKS OF LIFE
TO GO TO TECHNICAL SCHOOL AND
COLLEGES.
A PLACE LIKE WEST VIRGINIA,
WE'RE LOSING WHITE AND BLUE
COLLAR JOBS.
I WANT TO SEE HOW THEY REINVEST
THE MONEY.
>> I WANTED TO ASK YOU A
QUESTION --
>> I WANT TO ADDRESS --
>> I WANT TO JUMP IN BECAUSE OF
SOMETHING THAT KRISTEN AND
VALENTINA SAID.
YOU TALKED ABOUT COMMUNICATING
THE PLATFORM.
YOU TALKED ABOUT CASTRO.
HE'S GONE ON TO RADIO SHOWS.
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THE
CANDIDATES YOU LIKE?
ARE YOU FINDING THEM ONLINE?
FINDING ADS ON THE TELEVISION?
HOW ARE YOU FINDING THE
CANDIDATES YOU LIKE?
YOU THINK SOCIAL MEDIA.
NOT ONLY FROM SOCIAL MEDIA, BUT
ONLINE.
HE'S BEEN GREAT IN SOCIAL MEDIA.
WHAT I THINK HAS BEEN GREAT, IS
ALL OF THE CANDIDATES ON SOCIAL
MEDIA.
HE'S BEEN GREAT COMMUNICATING
HIS POLICIES.
THEY GET TEN-SECOND VIDEOS.
THAT'S SHORT VIDEOS AND TEXT.
CLOSER TO THE POLICY EVEN IF
IT'S JUST THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA
VIDEOS AND TEXT.
>> THAT'S STRIKING A BALANCE
BETWEEN STRIKING A BRAND AND
GETTING TO THE NITTY-GRITTY OF
YOUR POLICY.
BETO O'ROURKE HAS A GREAT IMAGE.
HE'S ATTRACTIVE, GREAT OVERALL
BRANDING, VERSUS SOMEBODY WHO IS
MORE IN DEPTH ABOUT HIS POLICY
ISSUES.
STRIKING THAT BALANCE IS
IMPORTANT.
>> WHAT RESONATES TO YOUR
GENERATION?
THE BRAND OR THE SUBSTANCE?
>> THE BRAND DRAWS YOU IN.
>> YOU HAVE TO HAVE BOTH.
IT'S GOING TO BE HARD FOR ANY OF
THE CANDIDATES TO PUT ALL OF
THEIR POLICIES ON TO SOCIAL
MEDIA.
LIKE ON TWITTER, YOU CAN ONLY
USE SO MANY CHARACTERS.
BUT WHAT THEY CAN DO IS GET
ENOUGH SUPPORT AND INTERACT WITH
PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY YOUNG PEOPLE
AND GET THEM INTERESTED ENOUGH
TO SAY, OH, WHY DON'T I GO ON
THIS PERSON'S WEBSITE AND GO
DEEPER INTO WHAT THEY'RE TRYING
TO DO?
>> I FEEL LIKE WE ARE THE
GENERATION THAT'S VERY MUCH
FOCUSED ON POLICY, AS WELL.
AND THAT MAKES US DIFFERENT FROM
THE REST OF OUR PARENTS'
GENERATION.
WE WANT SPECIFIC ANSWERS FOR
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS, BRINGING UP
THAT POINT ABOUT HOW THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY LIKES TO PANDER
TO A LOT OF THOSE WITHIN THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY,
WHICH IS A BIG REASON WHY
HILLARY CLINTON MOVED THAT
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE FED UP WITH
POLITICIANS SAYING ONE THING AND
DOING SOMETHING ELSE INSIDE OF
THE OFFICE.
>> RIGHT.
THEY'LL HAVE TO TELL US WHO THEY
ARE TONIGHT AND BRING THAT
SUBSTANCE.
>> SUBSTANCE AND STYLE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US RIGHT
HERE ON NBC NOW.
>>> THROUGHOUT THE YEARS, MANY
CANDIDATES HAVE TAKEN TO THE
PRIMARY DEBATE STAGE TO SELL
THEIR MESSAGE TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WHILE SOME HAVE SUCCEEDED
AND OTHERS FADED INTO THE
BACKGROUND, OR THEY MADE
CRITICAL FAUX PASS.
DASHA BURNS DIGS INTO THE
ARCHIVES TO FIND OUT WHAT STOOD
OUT IN DEBATES OF THE PAST AND
HOW THE MEDIMEDIA-ANOINTED WINN
FARED IN THE ACTUAL ELECTION.
>> LET'S DIG INTO THE ARCHIVES
TO SEE WHAT HISTORY SAYS ABOUT
HOW MUCH THE MOMENTS HAVE THESE
EVENTS ACTUALLY STICK.
♪♪
SO, I WANT TO START IN 1960.
I'M GOING TO GO TO THE JFK
LIBRARY YOUTUBE PAGE FOR THIS.
NO, I AM NOT LOOKING FOR THAT
FAMOUS NIXON/KENNEDY DEBATE.
EVERYBODY THINKS THAT WAS THE
FIRST BIG TELEVISED DEBATE.
THERE WAS ACTUALLY A PRIMARY
DEBATE EARLIER THAT YEAR QUEEN
TO KENNEDY AND HUBERT HUMPHREY.
THIS TAPE WAS LOST FOR DECADES.
THEN IT WAS FOUND.
>> I FEEL THE USE OF THE TEST
LAWS TO PURCHASE POWER AND
BROADEN THE BASE OF THE
CONSUMERS, THE CONSUMPTION
ABILITY OF THE PEOPLE IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
I DO AGREE THAT WE OUGHT TO TRY
TO CLOSE THE LOOPHOLE.
THERE'S MANY THINGS THAT CAN BE
DONE.
UNTIL WE DO IT, UNTIL WE'RE ABLE
TO BRING IN ENOUGH REVENUE TO
BRING UP THE LOSS, I CANNOT
ADVOCATE AT THIS TIME THAT
REDUCTION IN TAXES.
>> I WANT TO SEE HOW THIS PLAYED
BACK THEN AND HOW WE COVERED IT.
THIS IS SOME MICROFILM THAT HAD
SOME HEADLINES FROM THE DAY.
WE'RE LISTENING FOR --
HOW DID THAT DEBATE GO DOWN?
KENNEDY WAS MORE EFFECTIVE IN
DEBATE.
THE NEW ENGLANDER WENT INTO THE
FIRST PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE AS THE
UNDERDOG AND HE STILL IS.
BUT HE MADE A MORE VISIT AND
EFFECTIVE PRESENTATION OF HIS
CASE.
HE WASN'T MUCH OF AN UNDERDOG
FOR LONG.
YOU PROBABLY KNOW THE REST.
HE WENT ON TO DEBATE RICHARD
NIXON IN A FACEOFF HE FAMOUSLY
WON AND BEAT HIM IN THE GENERAL.
NOW, I'M LOOKING FOR FOOTAGE
FROM 1972.
THIS IS ON FILM.
YES, REAL FILM.
AND THIS IS NBC'S FILM LIBRARY.
WE DIGITIZE OLD FILM FOOTAGE.
MARCH 1972, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
LET'S CHECK THIS OUT.
THIS WAS THE FIRST TELEVISED
DEBATE SINCE THE 1960 ELECTION.
A DECADE BEFORE CANDIDATES WOULD
DEBATE ON BROADCAST TELEVISION
AGAIN.
CRITICS THOUGHT THEY WERE
USELESS.
THE TWO FRONT RUNNERS WERE
EDMUND MUSKIE AND GEORGE
McGOVERN.
IT DID NOT GO OVER WELL.
ALL OF THE PAPERS PANNED THIS
DEBATE.
THERE'S REPORTS OF PEOPLE
CALLING IT A DEBACLE.
DEMOCRACY DYING A SLOW DEATH.
AND ANOTHER PAPER SAID THE RAT
ONES.
IN THE DEBATE, ONE OF THE
CANDIDATES PULLED OUT A RUBBER
RAT.
YEAH.
GEORGE McGOVERN GOT THE
NOMINATION BUT HE LOST TO NIXON.
HE KIND OF GOT LOST TO HISTORY,
TOO.
NOW, I WANT TO HUNT DOWN A TAPE
FROM 1984.
IT WAS JANUARY.
AND REAGAN'S POLL NUMBERS WERE
NOT LOOKING SO GOOD.
AND SO, A BUNCH OF DEMOCRATS
DECLARED THEIR CANDIDATE.
HERE WE GO.
AND THE FIRST PRIMARY DEWAIT
KICKS THINGS OFF WITH A BANG.
AND GOT A TON OF PRESS COVERAGE,
RIGHT HERE ON NBC NEWS.
YESTERDAY, WAS IT GOOD POLITICS,
GOOD THEATER OR BOTH?
>> IT WAS BOTH.
THIS IS SOME OF THE FIREWORKS
THAT THE VIEWERS SAW YESTERDAY
AFTERNOON.
>> I WORKED THIS OUT CAREFULLY.
I PLEDGED AND CAN ACHIEVE IT, TO
REDUCE THE REAGAN DEFICIT BY
MORE THAN HALF.
>> THAT'S THE SAME GOBBLEDYGOOK
WE'VE BEEN HEARING THIS WHOLE
CAMPAIGN.
>> THE DEBATE MODERATED BY PHIL
TED KOPPEL AND PHIL DONAHUE, WAS
HIGHLIGHTED BY A SHOUTING MATCH.
>> WHO HAS THE FLOOR?
>> THERE'S BEEN A SIX-MINUTE
SPEECH, ALL OF IT BALONEY.
>> MAYBE THAT WAS PRETTY MILD
COMPARED TO TODAY.
FOR BACK THEN, IT WAS PRETTY
FIERY.
I LOVE THESE HEADLINES FROM THE
WASHINGTON, D.C.
WALTER F. MONDALE AND SENATOR
JOHN GLEN OF OHIO, ACCUSE EACH
OTHER AFTER GOBBLEDYGOOK AND
BALONEY TODAY.
MONDALE WAS CRUSHED BY RAGEN IN
THE GENERAL, WHO WON ALL BUT ONE
STATE.
THIS SHOULD BE A WARNING TO
DEMOCRATS TODAY.
EVEN WITH REAGAN SLUMPING IN THE
POLLS GOING INTO THE RACE, AND A
MASSIVE FIELD OF BIG-NAME
DEMOCRATS, THEY DIDN'T COME
CLOSE TO UNSEEDING THE
INCUMBENT.
>>> THE FIRST DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE IS JUST
MINUTES AWAY.
AS VIEWERS ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES TUNE IN TO WATCH THESE
TEN DEMOCRATIC CONTENDERS,
DISCUSS SOME OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUES FACING THE
COUNTRY.
SHERMICHAEL, ZERLINA, BACK WITH
US IN THE STUDIO.
ALEX, IS THERE ANYONE TONIGHT
YOU THINK CAN STEAL ELIZABETH
WARREN'S THUNDER?
>> I WOULD LOOK AT AMY
KLOBUCHAR.
SHE'S GOING TO TRY TO
DISTINGUISH HERSELF FROM
WARREN'S BIG, HUGE, FUNDAMENTAL
CHANGE PLAN.
SHE'S GOING TO GIVE YOU A FEW
THINGS TO MOVE THE BALL FORWARD.
REALLY TO BREAK OUT THIS SEASON
AND ESTABLISH HERSELF.
>> DO YOU AGREE?
YOU'RE NODDING YOUR HEAD.
>> I THINK AMY KLOBUCHAR IS THE
MOST DIFFERENT FROM THOSE TOP
FIVE FOLKS.
>> SHE'S MODERATE.
>> SHE'S THE ONE PERSON IN
TONIGHT'S DEBATE THAT COULD
CHALLENGE JOE BIDEN IN THAT
RING.
NOBODY ELSE IS GOING FOR THAT
LANE.
I THINK THERE'S AN OPENING.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT RESONATES
WITH THE BASE OF THE PARTY.
YOU NEED THOSE PEOPLE ORGANIZING
AND KNOCKING ON DOORS AND
FUND-RAISING AND MAKING CALLS TO
GROW YOUR COALLATION.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S THAT
MANY PEOPLE IN THE BASE THAT
WOULD SUPPORT HER.
BUT SHE HAS A MESSAGE AND CAN
VIE FOR THAT CENTRAL LANE.
>> HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT
ACTIVIST ENERGY?
WHO ARE THE CONTENDERS WE'LL SEE
TONIGHT?
>> I THINK CASTRO WILL DO WELL.
I'LL TELL YOU WHY.
MEMBERS OF THE HISPANIC PEOPLE,
THEY ARE THE FAST EVIDENT
GROWING MINORITY GROUP IN THIS
COUNTRY.
WE SAW IN 2018, THEY ARE
MOBILIZING.
THEY ARE LEARNING THE POLITICAL
PROCESS.
THEY ARE BECOMING ENGAGED AND
INVOLVED.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING
WHAT POLICY HE WILL TRY TO TALK
ABOUT BEING AS CONCISE OF
POSSIBLE.
THAT WILL NOT ONLY BENEFIT
HISPANICS AND AFRICAN-AMERICANS,
BRINGING BOTH GROUPS TOGETHER.
>> I THINK CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM, WHICH IMPACTS HISPANICS.
I THINK VOTING, EDUCATION AND
HEALTH CARE.
THOSE ISSUES ARE PIVOTAL THAT
THOSE GROUPS CAN SAY, I'M BLACK
BUT I AGREE WITH MY HISPANIC
BROTHERS ON THIS.
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT IMPACTS US
BOTH.
>> ALSO, WHERE DO WE STAND AS
AMERICANS, RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> WE SEE A LIVE PICTURE HERE OF
THE CANDIDATES TAKING THE STAGE.
THEY'RE TAKING POSITION IN THE
MOST RECENT POLL.
IS THERE ANYTHING WE SHOULD BE
LOOKING FOR TONIGHT, OR ASKING
OURSELVES AS CITIZENS, WHILE
WE'RE WATCHING?
I THINK I'M GOING TO BE
LISTENING FOR REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CARE.
THAT WAS AN ISSUE NOT BROUGHT
UP, NOT ASKED BY A QUESTION
UNTIL HILLARY CLINTON BROUGHT IT
UP HERSELF IN THE DEBATE.
THERE WERE NO QUESTIONS ABOUT
ABORTION.
NO QUESTIONS ABOUT FUNDING FROM
PLANNED PARENTHOOD AND GIVING
BACK OF REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM.
THAT BEING AN ISSUE IN GEORGIA
AND MISSOURI, PASSING
RESTRICTIVE LAWS TO GO OUT WHERE
WE WERE, THESE CANDIDATES NEED
TO SPEAK CLEARLY AND LOOK LIKE
THEY UNDERSTAND WHAT IS AT STAKE
FOR AMERICAN WOMEN.
WOMEN ARE GOING TO BE THE
DIFFERENCE IN THIS ELECTION,
JUST LIKE THEY WERE IN 2018 AND
IN 2016.
ALL THE ELECTIONS PREVIOUSLY.
>> THAT'S INTERESTING.
THIS CYCLE WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF
ISSUES COME TO THE, HOPEFULLY,
THE DEBATE STAGE.
BUT ALSO IN THE ELECTION CYCLE
THAT WE DIDN'T ANTICIPATE.
REPARATION, RIGHT?
OR THE GREEN NEW DEAL.
THESE WERE ONCE THOUGHTS THAT
YOU WOULD CONSIDER IN YOUR
FRESHMAN DORM POLICY SCI CLASS.
ARE THERE OTHER ISSUES THAT WE
SHOULD LOOK OUT FOR OR LISTEN
FOR THAT HAVEN'T BEEN DISCUSSED
OR REPORTED?
>> I JUST THINK BECAUSE OF THE
EVENT OF THE DAY, IMMIGRATION IS
GOING TO BE TOP OF MIND FOR
EVERYBODY.
I WOULD BE CURIOUS IF ANY OF THE
CANDIDATES GO BEYOND
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
AND ARTICULATE A POSITIVE, A
DIFFERENT VISION FOR
IMMIGRATION, WHETHER BETO
O'ROURKE FROM THE BORDER OR
CASTRO, THE ONLY LATINO
CANDIDATE IN THE RACE.
>> AS THEY ARTICULATE THAT, WE
HEARD THE STUDENTS SAY THEY WANT
THE STYLE AND THE SUBSTANCE.
BUT IS THIS AN OPENING NIGHT
ABOUT STYLE?
ARE THESE CANDIDATES GOING TO
TRY TO GRAB THE TOMORROW MORNING
HEADLINES?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> I WORKED FOR ROMNEY, GINGRICH
AND CARSON.
I'VE BEEN TO EVERY PRESIDENTIAL
DEBATE WITH THOSE THREE
INDIVIDUALS.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A MOMENT THAT
TOMORROW MORNING'S HEADLINES
WILL SAY, DID YOU SEE WHAT SO
AND SO SAID?
PARTICULARLY NOW BECAUSE THE
DYNAMICS HAVE CHANGED.
>> THEY'RE SO INSTANTANEOUS.
>> I WOULD SAY IT'S A LITTLE
QUICKER THAN 2016.
FOR NOW, THERE'S A LOT OF
THOUGHTS AND DISCONVERSATION.
NOW, WE HAVE TO BE ON THE
LOOKOUT FOR THAT.
THE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGNS WILL
HAVE TO NAVIGATE A NEW TERRAIN
THIS YEAR.
>> A NEW TERRAIN WE'RE ABOUT TO
SEE THEM NAVIGATE AS WE SPEAK.
YOU CAN SEE THE CANDIDATES THERE
LINING UP ON THE PODIUM.
WATCH THIS ON NBC NEWS, ON
TELEMUNDO, ON MSNBC.
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE YOU A BIG
THANK YOU TO ZERLINA,
SHERMICHAEL, ALEX AND JACKIE.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE BACK AFTER
THE DEBATE WITH MORE ON OUR
PANEL, AS WELL AND ANALYSIS FROM
THESE GUYS.
FOR NOW, WE HAND IT OVER TO OUR
TEAM IN MIAMI.
WE HOPE THAT YOU ENJOY WATCHING
THIS DEBATE AS MUCH AS WE WILL.
SEE YOU SOON.
♪♪
>> GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
I'M LESTER HOLT AND WELCOME TO
THE FIRST DEMOCRATIC DEBATE IN
THETH 2020 RACE FOR PRESIDENT.
>> I'M SAVANNAH GUTHRIE.
WE'LL BE JOINED BY OUR
COLLEAGUES, CHUCK TODD AND
RACHEL  MADDOW.
>> WHAT SETS THESE CANDIDATES
APART AND WHICH OF THESE
HOPEFULS HAS WHAT IT TAKES?
>> NOWIN IT'S TIME TO FIND OUT.
>> TONIGHT, ROUND 1, NEW JERSEY
SENATOR CORY BECOMER, JEWEL LAN
CASTRO, BILL DEE APPLAUSE OWE,
MINNESOTA SENATOR AMY KLOBUCHAR,
FORMER TEXAS CONGRESSMAN BETO
O'ROURKE.
THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES
DEBATE, LIVE FROM MIAMI,
FLORIDA.
[ APPLAUSE ]
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> GOOD EVENING.
WELCOME TO THEHE CANDIDATES ANDO
OUR AUDIENCE HERE IN MIAMI AND
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
TONIGHT WE'RE GOING TO TAKE ON
MANY OF THE MOST PRESSING ISSUES
OF THE MOMENT INCLUDING
IMMIGRATION, THE SITUATION
UNFOLDING AT OUR BORDER AND THE
TREATMENT OFOF MIGRANT CHILDREN
>> AND WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE TENSIONS WITH IRAN, CLIMATE
CHANGE AND OF COURSE WE'LLLL TA
ABOUTSE THE ECONOMY.
THOSE KITCHEN-TABLE ISSUES SO
MANY AMERICANS FACE EVERY DAY.
>> QUICK RULES, 20 CANDIDATES
QUALIFIED FOR THIS FIRST DEBATE,
WE'LL HEAR FROM 10 TONIGHT AND
10 MORE TOMORROW.
THE BREAKDOWN WAS SELECTED AT
RANDOM.
THE CANDIDATES WILL HAVE 60
SECONDS TO ANSWER AND 30 SECONDS
FOR ANY FOLLOW UPS.
>> BECAUSE OF THIS LARGE FIELD,
NOT EVERY PERSON WILL BE ABLE TO
COMMENT ON EVERY TOPIC.
BUT OVEROV THE COURSE OF THE NE
TWO HOURS, WE WILL HEAR FROM
EVERYONE.
WE WOULD LIKE TO ASK THE
AUDIENCE TO KEEP THEIR REACTIONS
TO A MINUTE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE SHY ABOUT
MAKING SURE THE CANDIDATES STICK
TO TIME TONIGHT.
>> WE WANT TO GET TO IT.
WE'LL START WITH SENATOR
ELIZABETH WARREN.
GOOD EVENINGEL TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU HAVE MANY PLANS, FREE
COLLEGE, FREE CHILDCARE,
GOVERNMENT HEALTH CARE,
CANCELLATION OF STUDENT DEBT,
NEW TAXES, NEW REGULATIONS, THE
BREAK UP OF MAJOR CORPORATIONS.
BUT THIS COMES AT A TIME WHERE
71% OF AMERICANS SAY THE ECONOMY
IS DOING WELL.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THOSE WHO
WORRYY THIS KIND OF CHANGE COUL
BEBE RISKY TO THE ECONOMY?
>> I THINK OF IT THIS WAY, WHO
IS THIS ECONOMY REALLY WORKING
FOR?
IT'S GOING GREAT FOR THE SLICE
AT THE TOP.
IT'S DOING GREAT FOR GIANT DRUG
COMPANIES.
IT'S NOT DOING GREAT FOR PEOPLE
TRYING TOO GET A PRESCRIPTION
FILLED.
IT'S DOING GREAT FOR PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO INVEST IN PRIVATE
PRISON, JUSTPR NOT FOR THE
AFRICAN-AMERICANSTI WHO'S LIVES
ARE DESTROYED AND WHO'S
COMMUNITIES AREE RUINED.
IT'S DOING GREAT FOR GIANT OIL
COMPANIES WHO WANT D TO DRILL
EVERYWHERE, NOT T JUST FOR THE
REST US WHO ARE WATCHING CLIMATE
CHANGE BEAR DOWN ON US.
WHEN YOU GOT A GOVERNMENT, AN
ECONOMY THAT DOES GREAT FOR
THOSE WITH MONEY AND NOT FOR
EVERYONE ELSE, THAT IS
CORRUPTION, PURE AND SIMPLE, WE
NEED TO CALL IT OUT, ATTACK IT
HEAD ONK  AND WE NEED TO MAKE
STRUCTURAL CHANGE IN M OUR
GOVERNMENT, ECONOMY AND IN OUR
COUNTRY.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, YOU CALLED
PROGRAMS LIKE FREE COLLEGE,
SOMETHING YOU MIGHT DO IF YOU
WERE A MAGIC GENIE, IS IT GIVING
YOUR VOTERS A FALSE SENSE OF
WHAT'S ACHIEVABLE.
>> FIRST THE ECONOMY, WE KNOW
NOT EVERYONE IS SHARING IN THIS
PROSPERITY AND DONALD TRUMP SITS
IN THE WHITE HOUSE AND GLOATS
ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON WHEN YOU
HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
HAVING TROUBLE AFFORDING COLLEGE
AND THEIR PREMIUMS.
I DO GET CONCERNED ABOUT PAYING
FOR COLLEGE FOR RICH KIDS, I DO.
BUT I THINK MY PLAN IS AND A
GOOD ONE.
AND MY PLAN WOULD BE TO FIRST OF
ALL MAKE COMMUNITY COLLEGE FREE
AND MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE ELSE
BESIDES S THAT TOP PERCENTILE GS
HELP WITHDE THEIR EDUCATION.
MY OWN DAD AND MY SISTER GOT
THEIR
FIRST DEGREES WITH
COMMUNITY COLLEGE AS WELL AS
CERTIFICATIONS.
I'D USE PELL GRANTS, I'LL DOUBLE
THEM FROM 6,000 TO $12,000 A
YEAR AND EXPAND IT TO THE NUMBER
OF FAMILIES THAT GET COVERED,
FAMILIES THAT MAKE UP TO A
HUNDRED THOUSANDTH DOLLARS.
AND THE THIRD THING I WOULD DO,
IS TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR
STUDENTS TO PAY OFLOF THEIR
STUDENT LOANS.
>> THAT'S TIME, THANK YOU.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> WHAT WE'VE BEENEN DISCUSSING
AND TALKINMAG ABOUT IS HOW MUCH
FUNDAMENTAL OF THE ECONOMY IS
DESIRABLE AND DO IT.
SOME WANT A TAX RATE OF 70%.
WOULD YOU SUPPORT THAT?
IFAR NOT, WHAT WOULD YOUR TOP
INDIVIDUAL RATEUL BE?
>> THIS ECONOMY HAS GOT TO WORK
FOR EVERYONE.
AND RIGHT NOW WE KNOW THAT IT
ISN'T AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE ALL
OF US COMING TOGETHER TO MAKE
SURE THAT IT DOES.
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE ]
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A SYSTEM THAT
FAVORS THOSE WHO CAN PAY FOR
ACCESS AND OUTCOMES.
THAT'S HOW YOU EXPLAIN AN
ECONOMY THAT IS RIGGED THE
CORPORATIONS AND THE VERY, WELL,
WEALTHYIST.
A NEW DEMOCRACY THAT ISIN REVIV
BECAUSE WE RETURN POWER TO THE
PEOPLE, NO GERRYMANDERING,
AUTOMATIC AND SAME-DAY VOTER
REGULATION ANDND A NEW VOTING
RIGHTS ACT TO GET RID OF THE
BARRIERS.
>> WOULDLD YOU SUPPORT A 70%
INDIVIDUALAL MARGINAL TAX BREAK?
>> I WOULD SUPPORT A TAX CODE
THAT IS I FAIR TO EVERYONE?
>> 70%?
>> TAKE THAT CORPORATE RATE UP
TO 28%.
>> THAT'S TIME.
THAT'S TIME, THANK YOU.
>> SENATOR BOOKER, THERE IS A
DEBATE IN THIS PARTY RIGHT NOW
ABOUT THE ROLE OF CORPORATIONS
AS YOU KNOW.
SENATOR WARREN PUT OUT A PLAN TO
BREAK UP TECH COMPANIES.
YOU SAID WE SHOULD NOT BE
RUNNING AROUND POINTING AT
COMPANIES AND BREAKING THEM UP
WITHOUT ANY KIND OFOF PROCESS.
WHY DO YOU DISAGREE?
>> I DON'T THINK I D DISAGREE.
I THINK WE HAVE A SEVERE PROBLEM
IN YOUR COUNTRY WITH CORPORATE
CONSOLIDATION.
WE SEE THAT BECAUSE CONSUMERS
PRICES ARE BEING RAISED BY
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES AND YOU
SEE THAT BY JUST THE FACT THAT
THIS IS ACTUALLY AN ECONOMY THAT
IS HURTING SMALL BUSINESSES AND
NOT ALLOWING THEM TO COMPETE.
ONE OFAG THE MOST AGGRESSIVE BIS
IN THE SENATE IS THE AG SECTOR.
SO I FEEL VERY STRONGLY ABOUT
THE NEED TO CHECK THE CORPORATE
CONSOLIDATION AND LET THE FREE
MARKET WORK.
AND I LIVE IN A LOW-INCOME BLACK
AND BROWN COMMUNITY.
I SEE EVERY SINGLE DAY THAT THIS
ECONOMY IS NOT WORKING FOR
AVERAGE AMERICANS.
THEER INDICATORS THAT ARE BEING
USED FROM GDP TO WALL STREET'S
RANKING IS NOT HELPING PEOPLE IN
MY COMMUNITY.
IT IS ABOUT TIME THAT WE HAVE AN
ECONOMY THAT WORKS FOR
EVERYBODY, NOT JUST THE WELL
WEALTHYIST IN OUR NATION.
>> YOU SAID IT WASN'T RIGHT TO
NAME NAMES AND SINGLE THEM OUT.
WHY IS THAT?
>>S AGAIN, I WILL SINGLE OUT
COMPANIES LIKE HALLIBURTON OR
AMAZON THAT PAY NOTHING IN
TAXES.
WHEN IT COMES TO ANTI-TRUST LAW,
I WILL APPOINTMENT JUDGES THAT
WILL ENFORCE IT, HAVE A DOJ THAT
WILLFE GO THROUGH THE PROCESSES
NECESSARY TO CHECK THIS KIND OF
CORPORATE CONCENTRATION.
AT THE END OF THE DAY WE HAVE
TOO MUCHCH OF A PROBLEM WITH
CORPORATE POWER GROWING.
WE SEE IT WITH CITIZENS UNITED.
IT'S ABOUT
TIME WE HAVE A
PRESIDENT THAT FIGHTS FOR THE
PEOPLE INVE THE COUNTRY WHO NEE
TO HAVE SOMEONE WHO'S A CHAMPION
FOR THEM.
>> SENATOR WARREN, I MENTIONED
YOU.
ARE YOU PICKING WINNERS AND
LOSS
LOSSERS.
>> THERE'S WAY TOO MUCH
CONSOLIDATION RIGHT NOW IN GIANG
INDUSTRIES IN THIS COUNTRY.
IT HURTS WORKERS, SMALL
BUSINESSES, INDEPENDENT FARMERS,
IT HURTS OUR ECONOMY OVERALL AND
IT HELPS CONSTRICT REAL
INNOVATION AND GROWTH IN THIS
ECONOMY.
WE'VE HAD THE LAWS OUT THERE FOR
A LONG TIME TO BE ABLE TO FIGHT
BACK.
WHAT'S BEENN MISSING IS COURAGE.
COURAGE IN WASHINGTON TAKE ON
THE GIANTS.
THAT'S PART OF THE CORRUPTION IN
THIS SYSTEM.
IT HAS BEEN FAR TOO LONG THAT
THE MONOPOLIES HAVE BEEN MAKING
THE CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS, HAVE
BEENNS FUNDING THE SUPER PACS,
HAVE BEEN OUT THERE MAKING SURE
THAT THEIR INFLUENCE IS HEARD
AND FELT IN EVERY SINGLE
DECISION THAT GETS MADE IN
WASHINGTON.
WHERE I WANT TO START THIS IS I
WANT TO RETURN GOVERNMENT TO THE
PEOPLE AND THAT MEANS CALLING
OUT THE NAMES OF THE MONOPOLISTS
AND SAYING I HAVE THE COURAGE TO
GO AFTER AFTER THEM.
>> THANK YOU.
[ APPLAUSE ]ME
>> SECRETARY CASTRO, DEMOCRATS
HAVE BEEN TALKINGON ABOUT THE P
GAP FOR DECADES.
WHAT WOULD YOU DO TO ENSURE THAT
WOMEN ARE PAID FAIRLY IN THIS
COUNTRY?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
QUESTION, LESTER.
I GREW UP WITH A MOTHER WHO
RAISED MY BROTHER AND ME AS A
SINGLE PARENT AND I KNOW WHAT
IT'S LIKEE TO STRUGGLE, I KNOW
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO RENT A HOME
AND TO WORRY ABOUT WHETHER
YOU'RE GOING TO BE ABLEE TO PAY
THE RENT AT THE FIRST OF THE
MONTH AND TO SEE A MOM WORK
VERY, VERY HARD AND KNOW THAT
MOMS ACROSS THIS COUNTRY ARE
GETTING PAID LESS SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY'RE WOMEN.
I WOULD DO SEVERAL THINGS
STARTING WITH SOMETHING WE
SHOULD HAVE DONEHA A LONG TIME O
WHICH IS TO PASS THE EQUAL
RIGHTS AMENDMENT FINALLY IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND ALSO PURSUE LEGISLATION SO
THAT WOMEN ARE PAID EQUAL PAY
FORR EQUAL WORK IN THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S PAST TIME THAT WE DID THAT.
AND WE HAVE TO DO THIS.
IF WE WANT TO BE THE MOST
PROSPEROUS NATION IN THE 21st
CENTURY.
WE NEEDUR TO MAKE SURE THAT WOM
ARE PAID WHAT THEY DESERVE.
>> PUT THE
SAME QUESTION TO
CONGRESSWOMAN GABBARD.
>> LET'S RECOGNIZE THE SITUATION
WE'RE IN.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE A
PRESIDENT WHO WILL PUT YOUR
INTEREST AHEAD OF THE RICH AND
POWERFUL.
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
IAV ENLISTED IN THE ARMY NATION
GUARD AFTER 9/11 SO I COULD GO
AFTER THOSE WHO ATTACKED US ON
THAT DAY.
I STILLWH SERVE AS A MAJOR.
SERVED OVER 16 YEARS.
AND IN CONGRESS I SERVED ON THE
FOREIGNED AFFAIRS AND ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE FOR OVER SIX
YEARS.
I KNOW THE IMPORTANCE OF OUR
NATIONAL SECURITY AS WELL AS THE
HIGH COST OF WAR AND FOR TOO
LONG OUR LEADERS HAVE FAILED US,
TAKING US FROM ONE WAR TO THE
NEXT, LEADING US INTO A NEW COLD
WAR COSTING US TRILLIONS OF OUR
HARD-EARNED TAXPAYER DOLLARS AND
COUNTLESS LIVES.
THIS INSANITY MUST END.
AS  IPRESIDENT, I WILL TAKE YOU
HARD-EARNED TAXPAYER DOLLARS AND
INVEST THOSE DOLLARS INTO
SERVING YOUR NEEDS, THINGS LIKE
HEALTH CARE, A GREEN ECONOMY,
GOOD-PAYING JOBS, PROTECTING OUR
ENVIRONMENT AND SO MUCH MORE.
>> YOU'RE THE MAYOR OF THE
BIGGEST CITY IN THE UNITED
STATES BUT IT'S ALSO ONE OF THE
CITIES IN THE COUNTRY WITH THE
GREATEST GAP BETWEEN THE WEALTHY
AND THE POOR.
HOW WOULD YOU ADDRESS INCOME
INEQUALITY?
>> WE'VE
BEEN ADDRESSING INCOME
INEQUALITY IN NEW YORK CITYNE B
RAISING WAGES, BENEFITS, PUTTING
MONEY BACKG  IN THE HANDS OF
WORKING PEOPLE, $15 MINIMUM
WAGE, PRE-K FOR ALL, THINGS THAT
ARERK MAKING A HUGE DIFFERENCE.
WHAT WE'RE HEARING IS THAT
BATTLE FOR THEST HEART AND SOULF
OUR PARTY.
I WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR, THIS IS
SUPPOSED TO BE THE PARTY OF
WORKINGOS PEOPLE.
YES, WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE FOR
70% TAX RATE ON THE
WEALTHY, YES
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE FOR FREE
PUBLIC COLLEGE FOR OUR YOUNG
PEOPLE, WE ARE SUPPOSED TO BREAK
UP BIG CORPORATIONS WHEN THEY'RE
NOT SERVING OUR DEMOCRACY.
THIS DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAS TO BE
STRONG ANDTO BOLD AND PROGRESSI
AND IN NEW YORK WE'VE PROVEN
THAT WE CAN DO SOMETHING VERY
DIFFERENT, WE CAN PUT MONEY BACK
IN THE HANDS OF WORKING PEOPLE.
AND EVERY TIME YOU TALK ABOUT
INVESTING INE  PEOPLE AND THEIR
COMMUNITIES, YOU HEAR FOLKS SAY,
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH MONEY.
WHAT I SAY, THERE'S PLENTY OF
MONEY IN THIS WORLD, IN THIS
COUNTRY, IT'S JUST IN THE WRONG
HANDS.
WE DEMOCRATS HAVE TO FIX THAT
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> DO YOU AGREE?
>> I THINK WE NEED TO DO REAL
THINGS TO HELP AMERICAN WORKERS
AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
THIS IS THE ISSUE THAT ALL OF US
HERE ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL, WE
NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE
HAS A LIVING WAGE.
AND I'VE CALLED FOR A DOUBLING
OF THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT.
THAT WILL CREATE A SITUATION
WHERE PEOPLE ACTUALLY HAVE A
LIVING WAGE.
THEN WE GOT TO FIX OUR PUBLIC
EDUCATION SYSTEM.
IT'S NOTRI DELIVERING THE RESUL
OUR KIDS NEED NOR IS COLLEGE AND
POSTHIGH SCHOOL CAREER AND
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROGRAMS
DOINGG THAT.
I'M VERY DIFFERENT THAN EVERYONE
ELSE HERE ON THE STAGE.
PRIOR TOVE BEING IN CONGRESS, I
WAS AN ENTREPRENEUR.
I STARTED TWO BUSINESSES.
I CREATED THOUSANDS OF JOBS.
I SPENT MY WHOLE CAREER HELPING
SMALL TOR  MID SIZE BUSINESSES L
OVER THE COUNTRY.
5,000 OF THEM I SUPPORTED.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION GAVE ME
AN AWARD FOR LENDING TO
DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES.
I KNOW HOW TO CREATE JOBS.
WE NEED A SHORT TERM STRATEGY
WHICH IS TO PUT MONEY IN THE
POCKETS OFAX WORKERS, CREATE PA
FAMILY LEAVE AND A LONG-TERM
STRATEGY TOTE MAKE SURE THIS
COUNTRY ISIS COMPETITIVE AND
CREATING T JOBS IN THIS COUNTRY
>> HOW WOULD YOU ADDRESS INCOME
INEQUALITY?
>> I THINK PLANS ARE I GREAT, B
I'M A GOVERNOR AND WE GOT TO
REALIZE THAT THE PEOPLE WHO
BROUGHT US THE WEEKEND, UNIONS,
ARE GOING TO BRING US A LONG
OVERDUE RAISE IN AMERICA.
I'VE GOT F A PLAN TO REINVIGORA
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
I MARKED WITH THE FOLKS, IT IS
NOT RIGHT THAT THE CEO OF
McDONALDS MAKES 2,100 TIMES MORE
THANAN EMPLOYEES.
DONALD TRUMP IJOS SIMPLY WRONG.
HE SAYS WINDND TURBINES CAUSE
CANCER, WE KNOW THEY CAUSE JOBS.
AND WE KNOW THAT WE CAN PUT
MILLIONS OFTH PEOPLE TO WORK IN
THE CLEAN ENERGY JOBS OF THE
FUTURE.
CARPENTERS,. MACHINISTS, WE'RE
DOING IT IN MY STATE TODAY.
AND THEN WE CAN DO WHAT AMERICA
ALWAYS DOES, LEAD THE WORLD AND
PUT PEOPLE
TO WORK.
>> PROMISED OF MANUFACTURING
JOBS, WE'RE ALL COMING BACK TO
PLACES LIKE YOUR HOME STATE OF
OHIO.
CAN YOU MAKE THAT SAME PROMISE?
>> YES, I BELIEVE YOU CAN.
BUT THE PRESIDENT SAID, DON'T
SELL YOUR HOUSE AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION JUST IN THE LAST
TWO YEARS, WE LOST 4,000 JOBS AT
A GENERAL MOTORS FACILITY THAT
RIPPLED THROUGH OUR COMMUNITY,
GENERAL MOTORS GOT A TAX CUT AND
A BAILOUT AND THEN THEY HAVE THE
AUDACITY TO MOVE A NEW CAR
THEY'RE GOING TO PRODUCE TO
MEXICO.
I HAVE FAMILY MEMBERS WHO HAVE
TO UNBOLT MACHINES FROM THE
FACTORY FLOOR, PUT IT IN A BOX
AND SHIP IT TO CHINA.
THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN GOING ON 40
YEARS.
THIS IS NOT A NEW PHENOMENON IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
THE BOTTOM 60% HAVEN'T SEEN A
RAISE SINCE 1980.
THE TOP 1% CONTROL 90% OF THE
WEALTH.
WE NEED A POLICY SAYING WE'RE
GOING TO DOMINATE BUILDING
ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
I WANT HALF OF THEM MADE IN THE
UNIT STATES.
I WANT TO DOMINATE THE SOLAR
INDUSTRY.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> SENATOR WARREN, ARE THESE
JOBS COMING BACK?
>> WE'VE HAD AN INDUSTRIAL
POLICY IN THE UNITED STATES FOR
DECADES.
IT'S BASICALLY BEEN LET GIANT
CORPORATIONS DO WHATEVER THEY
WANT TO THE.
THEY HAVE ONE LOYALTY, AND THAT
IS TO PROFIT.
IF THEY CAN SAVE A NICKEL BY
MOVING A JOB TO MEXICO, ASIA OR
CANADA, THEY'RE GOING TO DO IT.
HERE'S WHAT I PROPOSE, START
WITH A PLACE WHERE THERE'S REAL
NEED.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A WORLDWIDE
NEED FOR GREEN TECHNOLOGY, WAYS
TO CLEAN UP THE AIR AND WATER
AND WE CAN BE THE ONES TO
PROVIDE THAT.
WE NEED TO GO TENFOLD IN OUR
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ON
GREEN ENERGY GOING FORWARD AND
THEN WE NEED TO SAY ANY
CORPORATION CAN COME AND USE
THAT RESEARCH, THEY CAN MAKE ALL
KINDS OF PRODUCTS FROM IT, BUT
THEY HAVE TO BE MANUFACTURED
RIGHT HERE IN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.
AND THEN WE HAVE TO DOUBLE DOWN
AND SELL IT AROUND THE WORLD.
THERE'S A $23 TRILLION MARKET
COMING FOR GREEN PRODUCTS.
WE SHOULD BE THE LEADERS AND THE
OWNERS AND WE SHOULD HAVE THAT
1.2 MILLION MANUFACTURING JOBS
HERE IN THE AMERICA.
WE CAN DO THIS.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> WE'RE GOING TO TURN TO THE
ISSUE OF HEALTH CARE RIGHT NOW
.
MANY PEOPLE HAVE HEALTH
INSURANCE COVERAGE THROUGH THEIR
EMPLOYER.
WHO HERE WOULD ABOLISH THEIR
PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE IN
FAVOR OF A GOVERNMENT-RUN PLAN?
JUST A SHOW OF HANDS.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL, SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, LET ME
PUT THE QUESTION TO YOU.
YOU'RE ONE OF THE DEMOCRATS WHO
WANT TO KEEP PRIVATE INSURANCE.
WHY IS AN INCREMENTAL APPROACH
BETTER THAN A SWEEPING OVERALL
APPROACH?
>> I THINK IT WAS SOMETHING
BARACK OBAMA WANTED TO DO WHEN
WE WERE WORKING ON THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
LET ME GO ON BEYOND THAT,
THERE'S A MUCH BIGGER ISSUE AND
THAT'S PHARMACEUTICALS.
THE PRESIDENT WENT ON TV ON FOX
AND SAID THAT PEOPLE WILL NOT
BELIEVE HOW MUCH HE WILL BRING
DOWN PRICES.
INSTEAD HE GAVE A HUNDRED
BILLION DOLLAR IN GIVE AWAYS TO
THE PHARMA COMPANIES.
FOR THE REST OF US, THE REST OF
AMERICA, THAT'S WHAT WE CALL AT
HOME, ALL FOAM AND NO BEER.
WE GOT NOTHING OUT OF IT.
AND SO MY PROPOSAL IS, TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT PHARMA, TO ALLOW
NEGOTIATION UNDER MEDICARE, TO
BRING YOU LESS EXPENSIVE DRUGS.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> THANK YOU.
SENATOR WARREN, YOU SIGNED ONTO
BERNIE SANDERS MEDICARE FOR ALL
PLAN.
IT WOULD PUT EVERYBODY ON
MEDICARE AND THEN ELIMINATE
PRIVATE PLANS THAT OFFER SIMILAR
COVERAGE.
IS THAT THE PLAN OR PATH THAT
YOU WOULD PURSUE AS PRESIDENT?
>> YES.
I'M WITH BERNIE ON MEDICARE FOR
ALL AND LET ME TELL YOU WHY.
I SPENT A BIG CHUNK OF LIFE
STUDYING WHY FAMILIES GO BROKE.
AND ONE OF THE NUMBER ONE
REASONS IS THE COST OF HEALTH
CARE, MEDICAL BILLS, AND THAT'S
NOT JUST FOR PEOPLE WHO DON'T
HAVE INSURANCE, IT'S FOR PEOPLE
WHO HAVE INSURANCE.
LOOK AT THE BUSINESS MODEL OF AN
INSURANCE COMPANY.
IT'S TO BRING IN AS MANY DOLLARS
AS THEY CAN IN PREMIUMS AND TO
PAY OUT AS FEW DOLLARS AS
POSSIBLE FOR YOUR HEALTH CARE.
THAT LEAVES FAMILIES WITH RISING
PREMIUMS, RISING CO-PAYS AND
FIGHTING WITH INSURANCE
COMPANIES TO TRY TO GET THE
HEALTH CARE THAT THEIR DOCTORS
SAY THAT THEY AND THEIR CHILDREN
NEED.
MEDICARE FOR ALL SOLVES THAT
PROBLEM.
AND I UNDERSTAND, THERE ARE A
LOT OF POLITICIANS WHO SAY, OH,
IT'S NOT POSSIBLE, WE CAN'T DO
IT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF POLITICAL
REASONS FOR THIS.
WHAT THEY'RE REALLY TELLING YOU
IS THEY DON'T WANT TO FIGHT FOR
IT.
HEALTH CARE IS A BASIC HUMAN
RIGHT.
AND I WILL FIGHT FOR BASIC HUMAN
RIGHTS.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> WHEN YOU RAN FOR SENATE, YOU
ALSO PRAISED THE BILL THAT WOULD
REPLACE PRIVATE INSURANCE.
THIS YEAR YOU'RE SAYING YOU'RE
NO LONGER SURE.
>> MY GOAL IS TO ENSURE THAT
EVERY AMERICAN IS WELL ENOUGH TO
LIVE TO THEIR FULL POTENTIAL
BECAUSE THEY HAVE HEALTH CARE.
IN TEXAS I MET A YOUNG MAN, 27
YEARS OLD, TOLD ME THAT HE HAS
BEEN TO A DOCTOR ONCE IN HIS
LIFE, AND HE WAS TOLD HE HAD
DIABETES, AND HE WAS TOLD
UNTREATED BECAUSE HE DIDN'T HAVE
HEALTH CARE, HE'LL BE DEAD
BEFORE THE AGE OF 40.
GETTING TO GUARANTEED
HIGH-QUALITY HEALTH CARE HAS TO
BE OUR GOAL.
THE ABILITY TO AFFORD YOUR
PRESCRIPTIONS, THE ABILITY TO
SEE A MENTAL HEALTH CARE
PROVIDER.
THE SINGLE LARGEST PROVIDER OF
MENTAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES IS
THE COUNTY JAIL.
HEALTH CARE HAS TO MEAN THAT
EVERY WOMAN CAN MEAN HER OWN
DECISIONS ABOUT HER OWN BODY AND
HAS ACCESS TO THE CARE THAT
MAKES THAT POSSIBLE.
OUR PLAN SAYS IF YOU'RE
UNINSURED, WE ENROLL IN YOU IN
MEDICARE, BUT IF YOU'RE A MEMBER
OF A UNION THAT NEGOTIATED FOR A
HEALTH CARE PLAN THAT LIKES,
YOU'RE ABLE TO KEEP IT, WE
PRESERVE CHOICE.
>> TIME IS UP.
I DO WANT TO ASK A FOLLOWUP ON
THIS.
WOULD YOU REPLACE PRIVATE
INSURANCE?
>> NO.
I THINK THE CHOICE IS
FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR --
>> PRIVATE INSURANCE IS NOT
WORKING FOR TENS OF MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
THE CO-PAYS, THE DEDUCTIBLES,
THE PREMIUMS, IT'S NOT WORKING.
HOW CAN YOU DEFEND --
>> FOR THOSE WHO ARE NOT
WORKING, THEY CAN CHOOSE
MEDICARE.
>> YOU GOT TO START BY
ACKNOWLEDGING IT'S NOT WORKING
FOR PEOPLE.
>> THEY'RE ABLE TO KEEP THEM.
>> IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT A
HUNDRED MILLION AMERICAS, I
THINK WE SHOULD BE THE PARTY
THAT KEEPS WHAT'S WORKING AND
FIXES WHAT'S BROKEN.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> DOESN'T THAT MAKE SENSE?
EVERYONE IN THIS COUNTRY HEALTH
CARE AS A BASIC HUMAN RIGHT FOR
FREE, BUT WE SHOULD GIVE THEM
THE ALSO TO BUY PRIVATE
INSURANCE.
WHY DO WE HAVE TO STAND FOR
TAKING SOMETHING AWAY FROM
PEOPLE.
IF YOU GO TO EVERY HOSPITAL IN
THIS COUNTRY AND YOU ASK THEM
ONE QUESTION WHICH IS HOW WOULD
IT HAVE BEEN FOR YOU LAST YEAR
IF EVERY ONE OF YOUR BILLS WERE
PAID AT THE MEDICARE RATE, EVERY
HOSPITAL ADMINISTER SAID THEY
WOULD CLOSE.
AND A MEDICARE FOR ALL BILL,
REQUIRES PAYMENTS TO STAY AT
CURRENT MEDICARE RATES.
WE'RE SUPPORTING A BILL THAT
WILL HAVE EVERY HOSPITAL CLOSE.
MY DAD WAS A UNION ELECTRICIAN,
HE LOVED THE HEALTH CARE THAT
THEY GAVE HIM.
AND I ALWAYS THINK ABOUT MY DAD
FROM A POLICY PERSPECTIVE.
HE WOULD SAY, GOOD JOB, JOHN,
FOR GETTING HEALTH CARE FOR
EVERY AMERICA.
BUT WHY ARE YOU TAKING MY HEALTH
CARE AWAY.
>> I'M FASCINATED --
CONGRESSWOMAN GABBARD?
>> I THINK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THIS IN THE WRONG WAY.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS OUR
OBJECTIVE, MAKING SURE THAT
EVERY SINGLE AMERICAN IS ABLE TO
GET THE HEALTH CARE THEY NEED.
I BELIEVE MEDICARE FOR ALL IS
THE WAY TO DO THAT.
I THINK THAT EMPLOYERS WILL
RECOGNIZE HOW MUCH MONEY WILL BE
SAVED BY SUPPORTING A MEDICARE
FOR ALL PROGRAM.
A PROGRAM THAT WILL REDUCE THE
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS, REDUCE THE
BUREAUCRATIC COST AND IS MAKE
SURE EVERYONE GETS THE QUALITY
HEALTH CARE THEY NEED.
IF YOU LOOK AT OTHER COUNTRIES
IN THE WORLD WHO HAVE UNIVERSAL
HEALTH CARE, EVERY ONE OF THEM
HAS SOME FORM OF A ROLE OF
PRIVATE INSURANCE.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE GOT TO
LOOK AT, TAKING THE BEST OF
THESE IDEAS, BUT MAKING SURE
THAT NO SICK AMERICAN GOES
WITHOUT GETTING THE CARE THAT
THEY NEED REGARDLESS OF HOW MUCH
OR LITTLE MONEY THEY HAVE IN
THEIR POCKET.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> SENATOR BOOKER, EXPLAIN TO ME
WHERE YOU ARE.
THIS IS IMPORTANT TO PEOPLE.
TELL US WHERE YOU ARE.
>> FIRST OF ALL, IN COMMUNITIES
LIKE MINE, IT'S AN EDUCATION
ISSUE, KIDS THAT DON'T HAVE
HEALTH CARE AREN'T GOING TO
SUCCEED IN SCHOOL.
IT'S AN ISSUE FOR JOBS AND
EMPLOYMENT, BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO
DO NOT HAVE GOOD HEALTH CARE, DO
NOT SUCCEED AT WORK.
IT'S EVEN A RETIREMENT ISSUE
BECAUSE AFRICAN-AMERICANS HAVE A
LOWER LIFE EXPECTANCY BECAUSE OF
POOR HEALTH CARE.
WHERE I STAND IS VERY CLEAR,
HEALTH CARE IS NOT JUST A HUMAN
RIGHT, IT SHOULD BE AN AMERICAN
RIGHT.
AND I BELIEVE THE BEST WAY TO
GET THERE IS MEDICARE FOR ALL.
WHEN I'M PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, I'M NOT GOING TO WAIT.
WE HAVE TO DO THE THINGS
IMMEDIATELY THAT ARE GOING TO
PROVIDE BETTER CARE AND ON THIS
DEBATE, I'M SORRY, THERE ARE TOO
MANY PEOPLE PROFITEERING OFF OF
THE PAIN OF THE PEOPLE OF
AMERICA.
INSURERS CHARGE 15%, WHILE
MEDICARE OVERHEAD IS ONLY AT 2%.
WE CAN DO THIS BETTER AND EVERY
SINGLE DAY I WILL BE FIGHTING TO
GIVE PEOPLE MORE ACCESS UNTIL WE
GET TO MY GOAL WHICH IS EVERY
AMERICAN HAVING HEALTH CARE.
>> I JUST WANT TO ANSWER --
>> TIME IS UP.
>> THE INSURANCE COMPANIES LAST
YEAR ALONE, SUCKED $23 BILLION
IN PROFITS OUT OF THE HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM, AND THAT DOESN'T
COUNT THE MONEY THAT WAS PAID TO
EXECUTIVES, THE MONEY THAT WAS
SPENT LOBBYING WASHINGTON.
WE HAVE A GIANT INDUSTRY THAT
WANTS OUR HEALTH CARE SYSTEM TO
STAY THE WAY IT IS.
IT'S NOT WORKING FOR FAMILIES,
BUT IT'S WORKING FOR --
>> IT'S TIME FOR US TO MAKE
FAMILIES COME FIRST.
>> IT SHOULD NOT BE AN OPTION IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR
ANY INSURANCE COMPANY TO DENY A
WOMAN COVERAGE FOR THEIR
EXERCISE OF THEIR RIGHT OF
CHOICE.
AND I AM THE ONLY CANDIDATE HERE
WHO HAS PASSED A LAW PROTECTING
A WOMEN'S RIGHT TO HEALTH
INSURANCE AND I'M THE ONLY
CANDIDATE WHO'S PASSED A PUBLIC
OPTION.
AND I RESPECT EVERYBODY'S GOALS
AND PLANS HERE.
BUT WE HAVE ONE CANDIDATE THAT'S
ADVANCED THE BALL, AND WE GOT TO
HAVE ACCESS FOR EVERYONE.
>> TIME IS UP.
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, I WANT
TO --
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THERE'S
THREE WOMEN UP HERE WHO HAVE
FOUGHT PRETTY HARD FOR A WOMAN'S
RIGHT TO CHOOSE.
I WILL START WITH THAT.
I THINK WE SHARE THE GOAL OF
UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE AND THE
IDEA I PUT OUT THERE, THE PUBLIC
OPTION, WHICH THE GOVERNOR WAS
TALKING ABOUT, THIS IDEA THAT
YOU USE MEDICARE OR MEDICAID,
WITHOUT ANY INSURANCE COMPANIES
INVOLVED, AND THE ESTIMATES ARE
13 MILLION PEOPLE WOULD SEE A
REDUCTION IN THEIR PREMIUMS, 12
MORE MILLION PEOPLE WOULD GET
COVERAGE.
I THINK IT IS A BEGINNING IN THE
WAY YOU START AND THE WAY YOU
MOVE TO UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE.
>> SECRETARY CASTRO, THIS ONE IS
FOR YOU, ALL OF YOU ON STAGE
SUPPORT A WOMAN'S RIGHT TO AN
ABORTION, A RIGHT TO A
GOVERNMENT HEALTH CARE OPTION,
WOULD YOU PLAN COVER ABORTION?
>> YES, IT WOULD.
I BELIEVE IN REPRODUCTIVE
JUSTICE.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> AND WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT
JUSTICE BECAUSE A WOMAN OR --
LET'S ALSO NOT FORGET SOMEONE IN
THE TRANS COMMUNITY, IS POOR
DOESN'T MEAN THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE
THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE THAT RIGHT
TO CHOOSE.
AND SO I ABSOLUTELY WOULD COVER
THE RIGHT TO HAVE AN ABORTION.
MORE THAN THAT, EVERYBODY IN
THIS CROWD AND WATCHING AT HOME
KNOWS THAT IN OUR COUNTRY TODAY,
A PERSON'S RIGHT TO CHOOSE IS
UNDER ASSAULT IN PLACES LIKE
MISSOURI, IN ALABAMA, IN
GEORGIA.
I WOULD APPOINT JUDGES TO THE
FEDERAL BENCH THAT UNDERSTAND
THE PRECEDENT OF ROE V. WADE AND
RESPECT IT AND IN ADDITION TO
THAT, MAKE SURE WE FIGHT HARD AS
WE TRANSITION OUR HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM TO ONE WHERE EVERYBODY
CAN GET AND EXERCISE THAT RIGHT.
>> WOULD YOU PUT ANY LIMITS ON
ABORTION?
>> I WOULD MAKE CERTAIN THAT
EVERY WOMAN HAS ACCESS TO THE
FULL RANGE OF REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CARE SERVICES AND THAT
INCLUDES BIRTH CONTROL,
ABORTION, IT INCLUDES EVERYTHING
FOR A WOMAN.
AND I WANT TO ADD ON THAT, IT'S
NOT ENOUGH FOR US TO EXPECT THE
COURTS TO PROTECT US.
47 YEARS AGO ROE V. WADE WAS
DECIDED AND WE'VE ALL LOOKED TO
THE COURTS ALL THAT TIME AS
STATE AFTER STATE HAS UNDERMINED
ROE, HAS PUT IN EXCEPTIONS, HAS
COME RIGHT UP TO THE EDGE OF
TAKING AWAY --
>> YOUR TIME IS UP, SENATOR.
>> WE HAVE AN AMERICA WHERE MOST
PEOPLE SUPPORT ROE V. WADE.
WE NEED TO MAKE THAT A FEDERAL
LAW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I WANT TO COME BACK ON THE
DISCUSSION WE WERE HAVING ABOUT
HEALTH AND THE OPIOID CRISIS.
YOU REPRESENT A STATE WHERE 14
OF THE 20 LARGEST PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES ARE BASED.
SHOULD PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES
THAT MANUFACTURE THESE DRUGS BE
HELD CRIMINALLY LIABLE FOR WHAT
THEY DO?
>> THEY SHOULD ABSOLUTELY BE
HELD CRIMINALLY LIABLE BECAUSE
THEY ARE LIABLE AND RESPONSIBLE.
THIS IS ONE OF THE REASONS WHY I
SAID I WOULD NOT TAKE
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM PHARMA
COMPANIES, NOT TAKE
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM CORPORATE
PACS BECAUSE THEY ARE PART OF
THIS PROBLEM.
AND THIS OPIOID ADDICTION IN OUR
COUNTRY, WE IN CITIES LIKE MINE
HAVE BEEN SEEING HOW WE'VE BEEN
TRYING TO ARREST OUR WAY OUT OF
ADDICTION FOR TOO LONG.
IT'S TIME THAT WE HAVE A
NATIONAL URGENCY TO DEAL WITH
THIS PROBLEM AND MAKE THE
SOLUTIONS THAT ARE WORKING TO
ACTUALLY BE THE LAW OF OUR LAND
AND MAKE THE PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE
HELP THEM PAY FOR THAT.
>> HOW WOULD YOU DEAL WITH IT?
>> TONIGHT IN THIS COUNTRY, YOU
HAVE 2.3 MILLION FELLOW
AMERICANS BEHIND BARS.
IT'S THE LARGEST PRISON
POPULATION ON THE FACE OF THE
PLANET.
MANY ARE THERE FOR NONVIOLENT
DRUG CRIMES AT A TIME WHERE MOST
OF THE STATES HAVE LEGALIZED IT
OR DECRIMINALIZED IT.
AND DESPITE WHAT PURDUE PHARMA
HAS DONE, THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO
ACT WITH IMPUNITY AND PAY NO
CONSEQUENCES.
THIS CRISIS WILL CONTINUE.
IN MY ADMINISTRATION, WE WILL
HOLD THEM TO ACCOUNT.
MAKE SURE THEY PAY A PRICE AND
WE WILL HELP THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN
VICTIMS OF THIS, GET THEM
TREATMENT AND LONG-TERM HEALTH
CARE.
>> WE NEED TO TAKE A BREAK.
WE'LL BE BACK WITH MORE FROM
MIAMI, AFTER THIS.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> WE WANT TO TURN TO AN ISSUE
THAT HAS BEEN IN THE NEWS
ESPECIALLY THIS WEEK.
THERE ARE UNDOCUMENTED CHILDREN
BEING HELD ALONE IN DETENTION.
EVEN AS CLOSE AS HOMESTEAD,
FLORIDA.
FATHERS AND MOTHERS AND CHILDREN
ARE DYING WHILE TRYING TO ENTER
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
WE SAW THAT IMAGE TODAY THAT
BROKE OUR HEARTS AND THEY HAD
NAMES.
THEY DIED TRYING TO CROSS THE
RIVER TO ASK FOR ASYLUM IN THIS
COUNTRY.
MORE THAN 130,000 MIGRANTS WERE
APPREHENDED AT THE SOUTHERN
BORDER.
IF YOU WERE PRESIDENT TODAY,
WHAT WOULD YOU SPECIFICALLY DO?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M VERY PROUD THAT IN APRIL I
BECAME THE FIRST CANDIDATE TO
PUT FORWARD A COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION PLAN AND WE SAW
THOSE IMAGES, WATCHING THAT
IMAGE, IT'S HEARTBREAKING, IT
SHOULD ALSO PISS US ALL OFF.
IF I WERE PRESIDENT TODAY, I
WOULD SIGN AN EXECUTIVE ORDER
THAT WOULD GET RID OF TRUMP'S
ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY, THE
REMAIN IN MEXICO POLICY AND THE
METERING POLICY.
THE METERING POLICY IS BASICALLY
WHAT PROMPTED THE TWO TO MAKE
THAT RISKY SWIM ACROSS THE
RIVER.
THEY HAD BEEN PLAYING GAMES WITH
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO SEEK
ASYLUM.
THEY WENT TO A PORT OF ENTRY AND
THEN THEY WERE DENIED THE
ABILITY TO MAKE AN ASYLUM PLAN,
SO THEY TRIED TO CROSS THE RIVER
AND THEY DIED BECAUSE OF THAT.
ON DAY ONE, I WOULD DO THAT
EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT WOULD
ADDRESS METERING AND I WOULD
FOLLOW THAT UP IN MY FIRST
HUNDRED DAYS IN IMMIGRATION
REFORM, THAT WOULD PUT
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS, AS LONG
AS THEY HAVEN'T COMMITTED A
SERIOUS CRIME, ON A PATHWAY TO
CITIZENSHIP.
AND WE NEED A PLAN TO PEOPLE CAN
FIND OPPORTUNITY AT HOME INSTEAD
OF COMING TO THE UNITED STATES
TO SEEK IT.
>> WHAT WOULD YOU DO ON DAY ONE?
AND THIS IS A SITUATION THAT THE
NEXT PRESIDENT WOULD INHERIT?
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE ]
>> ON DAY ONE, I WILL MAKE SURE
THAT WE END THE ICE POLICY AND
THE CUSTOMS AND BORDER POLICIES
THAT ARE VIOLATING THE HUMAN
RIGHTS.
WHEN PEOPLE COME TO THIS
COUNTRY, THEY DO NOT LEAVE THEIR
HUMAN RIGHTS AT THE BORDER.
NUMBER TWO, I WILL MAKE SURE
THAT WE REINSTATE DACA, PATHWAYS
TO CITIZENSHIP AND MAKE SURE
THAT PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE CAN
STAY AND REMAIN HERE.
AND FINALLY, WE NEED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ADDRESS THE ISSUES
THAT MADE OSCAR AND HIS DAUGHTER
COME HERE IN THE FIRST PLACE,
MAKING MAJOR INVESTMENTS IN THE
NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
WE CANNOT SURRENDER OUR VALUES
AND THINK THAT WE'RE GOING TO
GET BORDER SECURITY.
WE WILL LOSE SECURITY AND OUR
VALUES.
WE MUST FIGHT FOR BOTH.
>> IF I MIGHT, VERY BRIEFLY,
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT POINT, MY
PLAN -- AND I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT
SENATOR BOOKER, WARREN, AND
GOVERNOR INSLEE AGREE WITH ME ON
THIS, MY PLAN ALSO INCLUDES OF
GETTING RID OF SECTION 1325, TO
GO BACK TO THE WAY WE USED TO
TREAT THIS, NOT TO CRIMINALIZE
DESPERATION.
THEY USE THAT LAW TO JUSTIFY
UNDER THE LAW SEPARATING
CHILDREN FROM THEIR FAMILIES.
AND SO I WANT TO CHALLENGE EVERY
SINGLE CANDIDATE ON THIS STAGE
TO SUPPORT THE REPEAL.
>> I AGREE WITH HIM ON THIS
ISSUE, BUT FOLKS SHOULD
UNDERSTAND THAT THE SEPARATION
FROM CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
HAPPENS IN OUR COMMUNITIES.
I.C.E. IS RIPPING CHILDREN AWAY
FROM THEIR PARENTS AND ARE
CREATING FEAR IN CITIES ALL
ACROSS THIS COUNTRY WHERE
PARENTS ARE AFRAID TO GO TO WORK
AND DROP THEIR CHILDREN OFF AT
SCHOOL.
>> LOOK AT THE BOTTOM LINE HERE,
THOSE TRAGIC -- THAT TRAGIC
PHOTO OF THOSE PARENTS, THAT
CHILD, AND I'M SAYING THIS AS A
FATHER, EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD
FEEL THAT IN THEIR HEART.
EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD SAY THAT
IS NOT AMERICA.
WE'RE NOT BEING HONEST ABOUT THE
DIVISION IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE WAY THAT CITIZENS HAVE BEEN
TOLD THAT IMMIGRANTS HAVE
CREATED THEIR PAIN AND
CHALLENGE.
THE IMMIGRANTS DIDN'T DO THAT TO
YOU.
THE BIG CORPORATIONS DID THAT TO
THE 1% DID THAT TO YOU.
WE NEED TO BE THE PARTY OF
WORKING PEOPLE AND THAT INCLUDES
THE PARTY OF IMMIGRANTS, BUT
FIRST WE HAVE TO TELL WORKING
PEOPLE IN AMERICA WHO ARE
WORKING THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE
ON THEIR SIDE AGAINST BIG
CORPORATIONS WHO CREATED THIS
MESS AND REMIND PEOPLE, IF WE
DON'T CHANGE THIS, WE WON'T GET
ALL OF THESE REFORMS.
>>.
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE ]
>> WHAT WOULD YOU DO,
CONGRESSMAN, DAY ONE, AT THE
WHITE HOUSE?
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE ]
>> WE WOULD NOT TURN THEM BACK.
WE WOULD NOT BUILD WALLS, WE
WOULD NOT PUT KIDS IN CAGES.
IN FACT WE WOULD SPARE NO
EXPENSE --
>> YOU'RE NOT PENALIZING --
>> YOU WOULD MAKE SURE --
>> LET HIM FINISH.
>> WE WOULD NOT DETAIN ANY
FAMILIES FLEEING VIOLENCE.
WE WOULD IMPLEMENT A FAMILY CASE
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM SO THEY COULD
BE CARED FOR IN THE COMMUNITY AT
A FRACTION OF THE COST AND WE
WOULD REWRITE OUR IMMIGRATION
LAWS IN OUR OWN IMAGE, FREE
DREAMERS FOREVER FROM ANY
DEPORTATION BY MAKING THEM
CITIZENS, INVEST IN CENTRAL
AMERICA SO THERE'S NO REASON TO
MAKE THAT JOURNEY.
>> LET'S BE VERY CLEAR, THE
REASON THAT THEY'RE SEPARATING
THESE LITTLE CHILDREN FROM THEIR
FAMILIES IS THAT THEY'RE USING
SECTION 1325 OF THAT ACT WHICH
CRIMINALIZES COMING ACROSS THE
BORDER TO INCARCERATE THE
PARENTS AND SEPARATE THEM.
SOME OF US ON THIS STAGE HAVE
CALLED TO END THAT SECTION, TO
TERMINATE IT.
SOME, LIKE CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE
HAVE NOT, AND I WANT TO
CHALLENGE ALL OF THE CANDIDATES
TO DO THAT.
>> I JUST THINK IT'S A MISTAKE.
AND I THINK THAT IF YOU TRULY
WANT TO CHANGE THE SYSTEM, THAT
WE GOT TO REPEAL THAT SECTION.
IF NOT, THEN IT MIGHT --
>> LET ME RESPOND TO THIS.
AS A MEMBER OF CONGRESS, I
HELPED INTRODUCE LEGISLATION
THAT WOULD ENSURE WE DON'T
CRIMINALIZE THOSE WHO ARE
SEEKING ASYLUM.
>> I'M TALKING ABOUT EVERYBODY
ELSE.
>> YOU'RE LOOKING AT JUST ONE
SMALL PART OF THIS.
I'M TALKING ABOUT A
COMPREHENSIVE REWRITE OF OUR
IMMIGRATION LAWS.
IF WE DO THAT --
>> THAT'S NOT TRUE.
>> A LOT OF FOLKS WHO ARE COMING
ARE NOT SEEKING ASYLUM.
A LOT OF THEM ARE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS.
AND YOU SAID RECENTLY THAT THE
REASON YOU DIDN'T WANT TO REPEAL
THE SECTION WAS BECAUSE YOU WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AND DRUG
TRAFFICKING.
SECTION 18 -- TITLE 18 OF THE
U.S. CODE, TITLE 21, 22 ALREADY
COVER THE --
>> IF YOU DID YOUR HOMEWORK --
>> WE SHOULD AND COULD BE
TALKING ABOUT FOR A LONG TIME
AND WE WILL FOR A LONG TIME --
>> CAN WE TALK ABOUT THE
CONDITIONS OF WHY PEOPLE ARE
COMING HERE?
>> SAVANNAH, IT'S JUST -- WE
COULD GO ON --
>> WE REALLY HAVE TO TALK ABOUT
WHY THESE PEOPLE ARE COMING TO
OUR COUNTRY AND WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO DO TO ACTUALLY MAKE A
DIFFERENCE IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> LET'S CONTINUE THE
DISCUSSION.
SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, LET'S TALK
ABOUT WHAT SECRETARY CASTRO JUST
SAID.
HE WANTS TO NO LONGER HAVE IT BE
A CRIME TO ILLEGALLY CROSS THE
BORDER.
DO YOU SUPPORT THAT?
DO YOU THINK IT SHOULD BE A
CIVIL OFFENSE ONLY AND IF SO, DO
YOU WORRY ABOUT POTENTIALLY
INCENTIVIZING PEOPLE TO COME
HERE?
>> IMMIGRANTS, THEY DO NOT
DIMINISH AMERICA, THEY ARE
AMERICA.
AND I AM HAPPY TO LOOK AT HIS
PROPOSAL, BUT I DO THINK WE WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU HAVE
PROVISIONS IN PLACE THAT ALLOW
YOU TO GO AFTER TRAFFICKERS AND
ALLOW YOU TO GO AFTER PEOPLE WHO
ARE VIOLATING THE LAW.
WHAT I REALLY THINK WE SHOULD
STEP BACK AND TALK ABOUT IS THE
ECONOMIC IMPERATIVE HERE.
AND THAT IS THAT OUR COUNTRIES
ARE HEADED UP BY PEOPLE WHO CAME
FROM OTHER COUNTRIES.
WE HAVE A SITUATION RIGHT NOW
WHERE WE NEED WORKERS IN OUR
FIELDS AND IN OUR FACTORIES, WE
NEED THEM TO START SMALL
BUSINESSES, WE NEED THEIR IDEAS.
AND THIS PRESIDENT HAS LITERALLY
GONE BACKWARDS AT A TIME WHERE
OUR ECONOMY NEEDS IMMIGRANTS.
AND SO MY PROPOSAL IS TO LOOK AT
THAT 2013 BILL THAT PASSED THE
SENATE WITH REPUBLICAN SUPPORT,
TO UPGRADE THAT BILL, TO MAKE IT
AS GOOD AS POSSIBLE, TO GET IT
DONE.
IT BRINGS THE DEBT DOWN BY
$158 BILLION.
IT GIVES A PATH TO CITIZENSHIP
FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN BECOME
CITIZENS AND IT WILL BE SO MUCH
BETTER FOR OUR ECONOMY IN
AMERICA.
>> THAT'S TIME, THANK YOU.
SHOULD IT BE A CRIME TO
ILLEGALLY CROSS THE BORDER OR
SHOULD IT BE A CIVIL OFFENSE
ONLY?
>> I AGREE WITH SECRETARY
CASTRO.
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER
PROVISIONS IN THE LAW THAT WILL
ALLOW YOU TO PROSECUTE FOR
PEOPLE COMING OVER HERE IF
THEY'RE DEALING DRUGS.
THERE'S NO NEED TO REPEAT IT.
I THINK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THIS
FATHER WHO GOT KILLED WITH HIS
DAUGHTER, AND THE ISSUES HERE,
THE WAY THESE KIDS ARE BEING
TREATED, IF YOU GO TO GUANTANAMO
BAY, THERE ARE TERRORISTS THAT
ARE HELD THAT GET BETTER HEALTH
CARE THAN THOSE KIDS WHO TRIED
TO CROSS THE BORDER IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THAT NEEDS TO STOP.
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT SHOULD
IMMEDIATELY ASK DOCTORS AND
NURSES TO GO IMMEDIATELY DOWN TO
THE BORDER AND START TAKING CARE
OF THESE KIDS.
WHAT KIND OF COUNTRY ARE WE
RUNNING HERE WHERE WE HAVE A
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WHO'S SO FOCUSED ON HATE AND
FEAR AND DIVISION AND WHAT HAS
HAPPENED NOW, THE END RESULT IS
NOW HE'S GOT KIDS LAYING IN
THEIR OWN SNOT WITH THREE-WEEK
OLD DIAPERS THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
CHANGED.
THAT IS A SIGN OF WEAKNESS
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> A LOT OF -- IF YOU WERE
PRESIDENT ON DAY ONE, WHAT WOULD
YOU DO WITH THE FACT THAT YOU
WILL HAVE FAMILIES HERE, THERE'S
BEEN A LOT OF TALK ABOUT WHAT
YOU'LL DO IN THE FIRST 100 DAYS
ABOUT LEGISLATION.
WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH THESE
FAMILIES?
HOW WILL YOU CARE WITH THEM?
>> THIS IS RELATED AND BRIEF
POINT.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS THAT
WE HAVE THE POWER TO BETTER DEAL
WITH THIS PROBLEM THROUGH THE
CIVIL PROCESS THAN THE CRIMINAL
PROCESS.
I HAVE BEEN TO SOME OF THE
LARGEST PRIVATE PRISONS.
OUR COUNTRY HAS MADE SO MANY
MISTAKES BY CRIMINALIZING THINGS
WHETHER IT'S IMMIGRATION,
WHETHER IT'S ADDICTION, WE KNOW
THIS IS NOT THE WAY TO DEAL WITH
PROBLEMS.
THERE'S A HUMANE WAY THAT
AFFIRMS HUMAN RIGHTS AND HUMAN
DIGNITY.
DONALD TRUMP ISN'T SOLVING THIS
PROBLEM.
WE SOLVED THIS PROBLEM BY MAKING
INVESTMENTS IN THE NORTHERN
TRIANGLE TO STOP THE REASONS WHY
PEOPLE ARE BEING DRIVEN HERE IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
WE CANNOT SACRIFICE OUR VALUES,
IDEALS AS A NATION FOR BORDER
SECURITY.
WE CAN HAVE BOTH BY DOING THIS
THE RIGHT WAY.
>> THANK YOU.
LET ME GO TOP GOVERNOR INSLEE ON
THIS.
WHAT WOULD YOU DO ON DAY ONE?
I HAVE YET TO HEAR AN ANSWER
FROM ANYONE ON THIS STAGE.
>> THERE'S NO REASON FOR THE
DETENTION OF THESE CHILDREN.
THEY SHOULD BE RELEASED PENDING
THEIR HEARINGS AND THEY SHOULD
HAVE A HEARING AND THE LAW
SHOULD BE FOLLOWED.
AND WE SHOULD DO WHAT WE'RE
DOING TO WASHINGTON STATE.
I'M PROUD THAT WE PASSED A LAW
THAT PREVENTS LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT FROM BEING TURNED
INTO MINI I.C.E. AGENTS.
I'M PROUD TO BE THE FIRST
GOVERNOR TO STAND UP TO DONALD
TRUMP'S MUSLIM BAN.
I'M PROUD TO BE A PERSON WHO'S
NOT ONLY TALKED ABOUT DREAMERS,
BUT BEING ONE OF THE FIRST TO
MAKE SURE THEY GET A COLLEGE
EDUCATION, SO THEY CAN REALIZE
THEIR DREAMS.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE MOST
INSPIRATIONAL PEOPLE IN OUR
STATE.
DONALD TRUMP THE OTHER DAY TRIED
TO THREATEN ME TO TELL ME THAT
HE WOULD SEND REFUGEES IN
WASHINGTON STATE IF WE PASSED
THE LAW THAT I PASSED AND I TOLD
HIM THAT'S NOT A THREAT AT ALL.
WE WELCOME REFUGEES INTO OUR
STATE.
WE RECOGNIZE DIVERSITY AS A
STRENGTH.
THIS IS HOW WE BUILT AMERICA.
THAT TRADITION IS GOING TO
CONTINUE IF I'M PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> WE'RE GOING TO SWITCH TO
ANOTHER TOPIC --
>> MY GRANDFATHER WAS ACTUALLY
SEPARATED FROM HIS FAMILY --
>> WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT
IRAN RIGHT NOW.
TANKERS HAVE BEEN ATTACKED, A
U.S. DRONE HAS BEEN SHOT DOWN.
THERE HAVE BEEN THREATS ISSUED
BY BOTH THE U.S. AND IRANIAN
LEADERSHIP.
I WOULD LIKE, IF YOU CAN, JUST
FOR A MOMENT, PUT ASIDE WHY YOU
THINK WE MAY HAVE GOTTEN HERE,
BUT I WANT TO KNOW, HOW DO WE
DIAL IT BACK?
BY A SHOW OF HANDS, WHO WOULD
SIGN ONTO THE NUCLEAR DEAL.
>> FIRST AND FOREMOST IT WAS A
MISTAKE TO PULL OUT OF THAT
DEAL.
AND ONE OF THE REASONS WE'RE
SEEING THE HOSTILITY NOW IS
BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP IS MARCHING
UP TO A FAR MORE DANGERS
SITUATION.
HE TOOK US OUT OF A DEAL THAT
GAVE US TRANSPARENCY INTO THEIR
PROGRAM AND NOW WE SEE IRAN
THREATENING TO GO FURTHER AND
BEING PULLED FURTHER INTO THIS
CRISIS.
WE NEED TO RENEGOTIATE AND GET
BACK INTO A DEAL BUT I'M NOT
GOING TO HAVE A PRIMARY PLATFORM
TO SAY I'M GOING TO REJOIN THAT
DEAL BECAUSE WHEN I'M PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, I'M GOING
TO DO THE BEST I CAN TO SECURE
THIS COUNTRY AND THAT REGION AND
MAKE SURE THAT IF I HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LEVERAGE A BETTER
DEAL, I'M GOING TO DO IT.
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, YOU SAID
YOU SHOULD NEGOTIATE YOURSELF
BACK INTO THE IRANIAN AGREEMENT.
CAN YOU ARGUE THAT THAT NUCLEAR
PACT WAS A GOOD DEAL?
>> IT WAS IMPERFECT, BUT IT WAS
A GOOD DEAL FOR THAT MOMENT.
I WOULD HAVE WORKED TO GET
LONGER SUNSET PERIODS, AND
THAT'S SOMETHING WE COULD
NEGOTIATE AFTER WE GET BACK IN
THE DEAL.
BUT THE POINT IS, DONALD TRUMP
TOLD US WHEN WE GOT OUT OF IT,
HE WAS GOING TO GIVE US A BETTER
DEAL, AND NOW WE ARE A MONTH
AWAY FROM THE IRANIANS WHO CLAIM
NOW THAT THEY'RE GOING TO BLOW
THE CAP ON ENRICHING URANIUM.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW.
HE'S MADE US LESS SAFE THAN WE
WERE THAN BEFORE HE WAS
PRESIDENT.
WE NEED TO STAND WITH OUR ALLIES
AND NOT GIVE AND IF THERE'S ANY
POSSIBILITY OF A CONFLICT, THAT
HE COMES TO CONGRESS FOR AN
AUTHORIZATION OF MILITARY FORCE.
I WOULD DO THAT.
AND THIS PRESIDENT IS LITERALLY
EVERY SINGLE DAY TEN MINUTES
AWAY FROM GOING TO WAR, ONE
TWEET FROM GOING TO WAR, AND I
DON'T THINK WE CAN CONDUCT
FOREIGN POLICY IN OUR BATHROBE
AT 5 IN THE MORNING.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> WOULD YOU INSIST, THOUGH,
THAT IT ADDRESS IRAN'S
SUPPORTIVE FOR HEZBOLLAH?
>> LET'S DEAL WITH THE SITUATION
WHERE WE ARE.
WHERE THIS PRESIDENT AND HIS
CABINET HAVE LED US TO THE BRINK
OF WAR WITH IRAN.
I SERVED IN THE WAR IN IRAQ AT
THE HEIGHT OF THE WAR IN 2005, A
WAR THAT TOOK OVER 4,000 OF MY
BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN
UNIFORMS' LIVES.
THIS WAR WITH IRAN WOULD BE FAR
MORE DEVASTATING THAN ANYTHING
THAT WE EVER SAW IN IRAQ.
IT WOULD TAKE MANY MORE LIVES,
AND IT WOULDN'T BE JUST
CONTAINED WITHIN IRAN.
THIS WOULD TURN INTO A REGIONAL
WAR.
THIS IS WHY IT'S SO IMPORTANT
THAT EVERY ONE OF US, EVERY
SINGLE AMERICA STAND UP AND SAY
NO WAR WITH IRAN.
WE NEED TO GET BACK INTO THE
IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT AND WE
NEED TO NEGOTIATE HOW WE CAN
IMPROVE IT.
IT WAS AN IMPERFECT DEAL.
THERE ARE ISSUES LIKE THEIR
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT THAT NEEDS
TO BE ADDRESSED.
WE CAN DO BOTH SIMULTANEOUSLY TO
PREVENT IRAN FROM DEVELOPING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON AND PREVENTING US
FROM GOING TO WAR.
>> WHAT WOULD YOUR RED LINE BE
FOR MILITARY ACTION AGAINST
IRAN?
>> LOOK, OBVIOUSLY IF THERE AS
AN ATTACK AGAINST TROOPS, THEN
THERE WOULD HAVE TO BE A
RESPONSE.
DONALD TRUMP AND HIS CABINET ARE
CREATING A SITUATION THAT JUST A
SPARK WOULD LIGHT OFF A WAR WITH
IRAN WHICH IS INCREDIBLY
DANGEROUS.
THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO DEESCALATE
TENSIONS.
TRUMP NEEDS TO GET BACK INTO THE
IRAN NUCAR DEAL AND PUT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE FIRST.
>> WE ARE OUT OF TIME.
WE WILL HAVE MUCH MORE -- WE'LL
HAVE MORE.
WE WILL CONTINUE OUR QUESTIONING
NEXT.
STICK AROUND.
WE'LL HAVE A LOT MORE WITH THE
CANDIDATES JUST AHEAD.
[ APPLAUSE ]
♪♪
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>>> WELCOME BACK TO THE FIRST
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
IN MIAMI.
>> RIGHT NOW LET'S TURN IT OVER
TO CHUCK TODD AND RACHEL MADDOW.
TAKE IT AWAY.
>> WE'RE GOING TO START BY
RECAPPING THE RULES, 20
CANDIDATES QUALIFIED FOR THIS
DEBATE.
WE'RE GOING TO HEAR FROM 10
TONIGHT, 10 MORE TOMORROW.
THE BREAKDOWN WAS SELECTED AT
RANDOM.
THE CANDIDATES WILL HAVE 60
SECONDS TO ANSWER, 30 SECONDS
FOR A FOLLOWUP, AND WE WILL BE
RUTHLESS IF NECESSARY.
>> WE CAN DO THAT.
HI, RACHEL.
>> HI, CHUCK.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE TALKING
ABOUT GUNS AND CLIMATE AND A
WHOLE LOT MORE IN THIS HOUR,
OBVIOUSLY, BECAUSE OF THE SIZE
OF THE FIELD, NOT EVERY PERSON
WILL BE ABLE TO WEIGH IN ON
EVERYTHING, BUT OVER THE COURSE
OF THIS NEXT HOUR, WE WILL HEAR
FROM EVERYONE, I PROMISE,
EVERYBODY, AND WE'RE GOING TO GO
WITH GUNS AND SENATOR WARREN I
WANT TO START WITH YOU.
WE ARE LESS THAN 50 MILES FROM
PARKLAND, FLORIDA, WHERE 17
PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN A SCHOOL
SHOOTING LAST YEAR.
WHERE THERE'S BEEN SIGNIFICANT
ACTIVISM ON GUN VIOLENCE, MANY
OF YOU ARE CALLING FOR A
REIMPLEMENTATION OF AN ASSAULTS
BAN.
BUT THERE WILL STILL BE HUNDREDS
OF MILLIONS OF GUN IN THIS --
EVERYBODY'S MICS ARE ON.
I THINK WE HAD A MIC ISSUE IN
THE BACK.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE QUESTION IS SIMPLY THIS,
I APOLOGIZE YOU DIDN'T GET TO
HEAR THIS.
WE'RE NOT FAR FROM PARKLAND,
FLORIDA.
GUN ACTIVISM HAS BECOME A BIG
PART OF HIGH SCHOOL LIFE.
MANY OF YOU ARE CALLING FOR
TIGHTER GUN RESTRICTIONS, SOME
OF YOU ARE CALLING FOR THE
RESTORATION OF THE ASSAULT
WEAPONS BAN.
THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE,
PERHAPS, HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
GUNS STILL ON THE STREETS.
IS THERE A ROLE FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IN ORDER TO PLAY --
IN ORDER TO GET THESE GUNS OFF
THE STREETS?
WE ARE --
>> IT'S HAPPENING.
>> WE ARE HEARING OUR
COLLEAGUES' AUDIO.
IF THE CONTROL ROOM COULD TURN
OFF THE MICS.
YEAH.
IF THE CONTROL ROOM COULD TURN
OFF THE MICS OF OUR PREVIOUS
MODERATORS, WE WILL --
>> WE HAVE ABOUT FIVE
MODERATORS.
>> YOU KNOW, WE PREPARED FOR
EVERYTHING.
>> GUESS WHAT, GUYS, WE ARE
GOING TO TAKE A QUICK BREAK.
WE'RE GOING TO GET THIS
TECHNICAL SITUATION FIXED.
WE WILL BE RIGHT BACK.
♪♪
[ APPLAUSE ]
>>> WE BELIEVE WE HAVE THE
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES.
>> NEVER SAY THAT.
>> NEVER SAY NEVER BUT WE WILL
MARCH FORWARD HERE.
AND I LEAN FORWARD HERE A LITTLE
BIT.
SENATOR WARREN WE'RE GOING TO
GET TO THE GUN QUESTION HERE.
PARKLAND, FLORIDA.
JUST NORTH OF HERE IN BROWARD
COUNTY.
AS YOU KNOW IT HAS CREATED A LOT
OF TEENAGE ACTIVISM ON THE GUN
ISSUE.
IT HAS INSPIRED A LOT OF TO YOU
COME OUT WITH MORE ROBUST PLANS
TO DOO DEAL WITH GUN, INCLUDING
ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN BUT EVEN IF
ABLE TO IMPLEMENT THAT, WHAT DO
YOU DO ABOUT THE HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF GUNS ALREADY OUT
THERE AND DOES THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAVE TO PLAY A ROLE
IN DEALING WITH IT?
>> SO, IN IN PERIOD OF TIME THAT
I'VE BEEN RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
I HAVE HAD MORE THAN 100
TOWNHALLS, TAKEN MORE THAN 2,000
UNFILTERED QUESTIONS.
AND SINGLE HARDEST QUESTION I'VE
GOTTEN I GOT FROM A LITTLE BOY
AND ONE FROM A LITTLE GIRL.
THAT IS TO SAY WHEN YOU'RE
PRESIDENT, HOW ARE YOU GOING TO
KEEP US SAFE?
THAT'S OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS
ADULTS.
7 CHILDREN WILL DIE TODAY FROM
GUN VIOLENCE.
CHILDREN AND TEENAGERS.
AND NOT JUST IN MASS SHOOTINGS.
THEY WILL DIE IN PLAYGROUND,
PEOPLE'S BACK YARDS.
GUN VIOLENCE IS A NATIONAL
HEALTH EMERGENCY IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND WE NEED TO TREAT IT LIKE
THAT.
SO WHAT CAN WE DO?
DO THE THINGS SENSIBLE.
DO THE UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND
CHECKS.
WE CAN BAN THE WEAPONS OF WAR.
BUT WAS WE CAN ALSO DOUBLE DOWN
ON THE RESEARCH AND FIND OUT
WHAT REALLY WORKS.
WHERE IT IS THAT WE CAN MAKE THE
DIFFERENCES AT THE MARGINS THAT
WILL KEEP OUR CHILDREN SAFE.
WE NEED TO TREAT THIS LIKE THE
VIRUS THAT'S KILLING OUR
CHILDREN.
>> YOU DIDN'T ADDRESS -- DO YOU
THINK THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
NEEDS TO GO AND FIGURE OUT A WAY
TO GET THE GUNS OUT THERE.
>> WHAT I THINK WE NEED TO DO IS
NEED TO TROO TREAT IT LIKE A
SERIOUS RESEARCH PROBLEM WHICH
WE HAVE NOT DONE.
YOU KNOW, GUNS IN THE HANDS OF A
COLLECTOR WHO HAS HAD THEM FOR
DECADES PB, NEVER FIRED -- HE
TAKES SAFETY SERIOUSLY.
THAT'S VERY DIFFERENT FROM GUNS
THAT ARE SOLD AND TURNED OVER
QUICKLY.
WE CAN'T TREAT IN AS AN ACROSS
THE BOARD PROBLEM.
WE HAVE TO TREAT IT LIKE A
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY THAT
NEEDS TO BRING DATA TO BEAR AND
MEANS MAKING REAL CHANGE IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WHETHER POLITICALLY POPULAR
OR NOT.
>> SENATOR.
>> SAFER FOR OUR CHILDREN.
>> SENATOR BOOKER YOU HAVE A
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BUYBACK
PROGRAM IN YOUR PLAN.
HOW IS THAT GOING TO WORK.
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO
SAY MY COLLEAGUE AND I HAVE BEEN
BOTH HEARING THIS ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
BUT WHAT'S WORSE I HEAR GUNSHOTS
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK I'M THE ONLY ONE I HOPE
I'M THE ONLY ONE ON THE PANEL
WHO HAD SEVEN PEOPLE SHOT IN
THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD LAST WEEK.
SOMEONE I KNEW WAS KILLED WITH
AN ASSAULT RIFLE AT THE TOP OF
MY BLOCK LAST YEAR.
FOR MILLIONS OF AMERICANS THIS
IS NOT A POLICY ISSUE.
THIS IS AN URGENCY.
FOR THOSE NOT DIRECTLY AFFECTED
IF YOU'RE TIRED OF LIVING IN A
COUNTRY WHERE KIDS LEARN TO
SCHOOL TO LEARN READING WRITING
AND MATH AND HOW TO DEAL WITH
ACTIVE SHOOTER IN THEIR SCHOOL.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'M TIRED
OF.
AND I'M TIRED OF HEARING PEOPLE
ALL THEY HAVE TO OFFER IS
THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS.
IN MY STATE PEOPLE SAY FAITH
WITHOUT WORKS IS DEAD.
WE WILL FIND A WAY.
THE REASON WE HAVE A PROBLEM
RIGHT NOW IS WE LET THE
CORPORATE GUN LOBBY FRAME IN
DEBATE.
IT IS TIME THAT WE HAVE BOLD
ACTIONS AND A BOLD AGENDA.
I WILL GET THAT GUN DSH DID AS
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT ABOUT POLICY
THIS IS PERSONAL.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR BOOKER.
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR I'D LIKE TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT SOMETHING THAT
SENATOR BOOK ARE MENTIONED, THE
ACTIVE SHOOTER DRELS.
THE SCHOOL SHOOTINGS DON'T MAKE
A COMPLETE NEWS CYCLE ANYMORE NO
MATTER THE DEATH TOLL PROCESS.
PARENTS ARE SO AFRAID AS KIDS GO
TO SCHOOL THAT KIDS ARE CAUGHT
UP IN THIS.
NEXT TO NOTHING HAS CHANGED IN
FLAL LAW TO AFFECT THE SCHOOL
SHOOINGS.
THIS A PROBLEM GETTING WORSE
OVER THE LIFETIME SNS OR IS
THERE SOMETHING YOU WOULD DO AS
PRESIDENT THAT YOU REALLY THINK
WOULD TURN IT AROUND?
>> YEAH, RACHEL, I -- I'M THE
DAD OF A 10-YEAR-OLD GIRL WHO IS
HERE TONIGHT.
AND THE WORST THING IS KNOWING
THAT YOUR CHILD MIGHT BE WORRIED
ABOUT WHAT COULD HAPPEN AT
SCHOOL, A PLACE THAT'S SUPPOSED
TO BE SAFE.
THE ANSWER TO THE QUESTION IS,
NO, WE DON'T HAVE TO ACCEPT
THAT.
AND I BELIEVE THAT ON JANUARY
20th, 2021, AT 12:01 P.M. WE
WILL HAVE A DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENT, DEMOCRATIC HOUSE AND
DEMOCRATIC SENATE.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> AND THE ACTIVE THEISTS OF
PARKLAND BOTH THEM AND THOSE WHO
ARE RISEN UP ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES AND INSPIRED SO MANY.
WE MAY NOT HAVE SEEN YET
LEGISLATIVE ACTION, BUT WE'RE
GETTING CLOSER.
THE HOUSE TOOK A VOTE.
IN THE SENATE THE QUESTION IS IF
THE DECISION IS BETWEEN 60
VOTES, A FILIBUSTER OR PASSING
COMMON SENSE GUN REFORM.
I'M CHATTANOOGA KMOOSING COMMON
SENSE GUN REFORM WE'RE GETTING
THAT DOWN DONE IN 2021.
>> I HAVE SOMETHING TO.
>> WE'LL GIVE YOU 30 SECONDS TO
FOLLOW UP ON THE ANSWER FROM
SECRETARY CASTRO CONGRESSMAN
RYAN.
>> YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IN THE
SCHOOLS.
THESE KIDS ARE TRAUMATIZED.
I SUPPORT ALL THE GUN REFORM
HERE.
WE NEED TO DEAL WITH THE TRAUMA
OUR KIDS HAVE.
TRAUMA BASED SKILLS IN EVERY
SCHOOL.
SOCIAL BASED LEARNING IN EVERY
90% OF THE THE SHOOTERS COMING
FROM THE SCHOOLS THEY ARE IN AND
70% FEEL SHAMED TRAUMATICIZED OR
BULLIED.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THESE KIDS
FEEL CONNECTED TO THE SCHOOL,
THAT MEANS A MENTAL HEALTH
COUNSELOR IN EVERY SCHOOL IN THE
UNITED STATES.
WE NEED TO PLAY OFFENSE.
OUR KIDS ARE SO TRAUMATICIZED
THEY'RE GETTING A GUN AND GOING
TO SCHOOL WE ARE DID DOING
SOMETHING WRONG TOO AND WE NEED
REFORM.
>> CAMPAIGNED ALL OVER THE STATE
IN 2018 IN THE MOST CONSERVATIVE
PARTS THERE.
WHAT DO YOU TELL A GUN OWNER WHO
MAY AGREE WITH YOU ON EVERYTHING
ELSE BE, OKAY BUT SAYS YOU KNOW
THE THE DEMOCRATS IF I VOTE FOR
THEM THEY'RE TAKING MY GUN AWAY.
AND EVEN THOUGH I AGREE WITH YOU
ON THE OTHER ISSUES HOW DO YOU
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION?
>> HERE IS HOW WE HAD THAT
CONVERSATION IN TEXAS, I SHARED
WITH THEM WHAT I LEARNED FROM
THOSE STUDENTS WHO SURVIVED THE
SANTA FE HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING OF
A YOUNG STUDENT NAMED BREE.
HER FRIEND MARCEL SURVIVED
ANOTHER SHOOTING, THE MOTHER OF
A VICTIM WHO LOST HER LIFE
TALKING ABOUT UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS WHERE YOU
CLOSE THE LOOPHOLES.
WE KNOW THEY SAVE LIVES.
ENDING THE SALES OF ASSAULT
WEAPONS IN THE KMUPTS, THE
WEAPONS OF WAR DESIGNED TO KILL
PEOPLE AS EFFECTIVELY AND
FURTHER EFFICIENTLY AS POSSIBLE.
THEY BELONG ON THE BATTLEFIELD
AND NOT IN THE COMMUNITY.
RED FLAG LAWS SO IF SOMEONE
POSES A DANGER TO THEMSELVES OR
OTHERS TO STOP BEFORE IT'S TOO
LATE.
WHAT I FOUND IN EACH OF THE
COUNTIES IS THAT DEMOCRATS AND
INFENCE AND REPUBLICANS, GUN
OWNERS AND NON-GUN OWNERS ALIKE
AGREE THAT THIS EFFORT MUST BE
LED WHICH THE YOUNG PEOPLE YOU
RERNSED EARLIER.
THE STUDENTS LED THE CHARGE HERE
IN FLORIDA AND THEY'VE BEEN ABLE
TO CHANGE THE LAWS.
THEY ARE MAKING OUR DEMOCRACY
WORK.
ENSURING VALUES AND INTERESTS
AND PRIORITIES ARE REFLECTED IN
THE LAWS THAT WE PASS.
>> THANK YOU CONGRESSWOMAN
O'ROURKE.
HANG ON.
LET ME GIVE 30 SECONDS TO
SENATOR KLOBUCHAR.
IRON RANGE.
GUN CONPHYSICAL ACCUSATION IF
THE GOVERNMENT IS BUYING BACK
HOW DO YOU NOT.
>> THAT'S NOT CONPHYSICALIZATION
INDICATION YOU GIVE THEM THE
OFFER TO BUY IT BACK.
I LOOK AT THE PROPOSALS AND I
SAY DOES THIS HURT MY UNCLE DICK
AND HER DEER STAND COMING FROM A
PROUD HUNTING STATE.
THESE PROPOSAL DON'T.
WHEN I I WAS A PROSECUTOR I
SUPPORTED THE ASSAULT WEAPON
BAN.
I SAW THE MOMS FROM SANDY HOOK
ADD SFROEKT FOR CHANGE AND WE
FAILED AND NOW THE PARKLAND KIDS
FROM FLORIDA, THEY STARTED A
NATIONAL IT'S LIKE WHEN GAY
MARRIAGE WHEN KIDS TALK TO
GRANDPARENTS AND PARENTS ABOUT
GAY MARRIAGE.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND.
AND THIS IS THE BEST THING SFL
SENATOR BOOKER LET ME GO TO YOU
ON ANOTHER MATTER.
>> SENATOR McCONNELL SAYS HIS
MOST CONSEQUENTIAL ACHIEVEMENT
WAS PREVENTING PRESIDENT OBAMA
FROM FILLING THE SUPREME COURT
SEAT.
HAVING SERVED WITH REPUBLICANS
ON THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE DO
YOU BELIEVE THEY WOULD CONFIRM
YOUR COURT NOMINEES?
>> I'M GOING TO USE 20 OF MY
SECONDS.
THERE IS ONE THING WE DON'T
AGREE WITH GUNS IT'S COMMON
SENSE AND THINGS AMERICANS AGREE
WITH IF YOU NEED A LICENSE TO
DRIVE A CAR.
YOU SHOULD NEED A LICENSE TO BUY
AND OWN A FIREARM.
AND NOT EVERYBODY IN IN FIELD
AGREE WAS THAT.
BUT IN STATES LIKE CONNECTICUT
THAT DID THAT THEY SAW 40% DROP
IN GUN VIOLENCE AND 15% TROP IN
SUICIDE.
WE NEED BOLD AGENDAS ON GUNS.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE SUPREME
COURT VERY CLEARLY WE -- I GROW
WITH MY FRIENDS SECRETARY
CASTRO, WE ARE GOING TO GET TO
50 VOTES IN THE SENATE.
THIS IS 18 WHOEVER NOMINEE NEEDS
TO CAMPAIGN IN PLACES LIKE SOUTH
CAROLINA BECAUSE WE CAN ELECT
JAMIE HARRISON.
THEY NEED TO CAMPAIGN IN PLACES
LIKE IOWA WE CAN WIN A SENATE
SEAT THERE.
THIS IS ABOUT GETTING US BACK TO
HAVING 50 VOTES IN THE SENATE
AND MORE SO WE CAN NOT ONLY
BALANCE THE SUPREME COURT BUT
START TO PASS AN AGGRESSIVE
AGENDA THAT FRANKLY ISN'T SO
AGGRESSIVE BECAUSE MOST OF
AMERICA AGREES WITH THE POLICY
OBJECT HE WAS OF OUR PARTY.
>> MAYOR DE BLASIO, ON A FOLLOW
UP, MAYOR DE BLASIO.
>> CONGRESSMAN DELAINE YOU'LL
HAVE TIME IN A MOMENT.
I'LL GIVE YOU TIME IN A MOMENT
MAYOR DE BLASIO AS EXECUTIVE IN
THE LARGEST CITY IN THE COUNTRY
YOU ARE USED TO SAYING WHAT YOU
WANT TO HAVE HAPPEN AND HAVING
IT HAPPEN.
IF YOU NOMINATE A SUPREME COURT
NOMINEE AS PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES AND MITCH KPAUNL
IS STILL SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
WHAT MAKES YOU BELIEVE THAT HE
WOULD ALLOW YOU TO MAKE A
NOMINEE.
>> RACHEL, I AM CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OF THE NATION'S LARGEST CITY I
WANT TO SAY SOMETHING QUICK ON
THE GUN ISSUE AND COME TO YOUR
QUESTION.
I RUN THE LARGEST POLICE FORCE
IN AMERICA TOO AND IF WE STOP
THE SHOOTINGS AND GET THE GUNS
OFF THE STREET WE HAVE TO HAVE A
DIFFERENT RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
THE POLICE AND COMMUNITY.
I WANT TO SAY THAT SOMETHING
THAT SETS ME APART FROM MY
COLLEAGUES RUNNING IN THIS RACE
AND THAT IS FOR THE LAST 21
YEARS I'VE BEEN RAISING THE A
BLACK SON IN AMERICA.
AND I HAVE HAD TO HAVE VERY,
VERY SERIOUS TALKS WITH MY SON
ABOUT HOW TO PROTECT HIMSELF ON
THE STREETS OF OUR CITY AND ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY, INCLUDING HOW
TO DEAL WITH THE FACT THAT YOU
HAVE TO TAKE SPECIAL CAUTIONS
BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN TOO MANY
TRAGEDIES BETWEEN YOUNG MEN AND
POLICE TOO AS WE SAW RECENTLY IN
INDIANA.
WE NEED TO TO HAVE A DIFFERENT
CONVERSATION IN THE COUNTRY
ABOUT GUNS BUT ALSO DIFFERENT
CONVERSATION ABOUT POLICING THAT
BRINGS POLICING AND COMMUNITY
TOGETHER WE HAVE DONE THAT IN
NEW YORK CITY AND DRIVEN DOWN
CRIME WHILE DOING IT.
BUT THE QUESTION ABOUT MITCH
McCONNELL THERE IS A POLITICAL
SOLUTION WE HAVE TO COME TO
GRIPS.
IF THE DEMOCRAT PARTY WOULD STOP
ACTING LIKE THE PARTY OF THE
ELITE AND BE THE PARTY OF THE
WORKING PEOPLE AND GO INTO RED
STATES TO CONVINCE PEOPLE WE ARE
ON THEIR SIDE WE CAN PUT
PRESSURE ON THEIR SENATORS TO
ASK THEM TO VOTE FOR THE
NOMINEES THAT ARE PUT FORWARD TO
PRESERVE.
>> SENATOR WARREN.
>> -- I WANT TO GET -- I WILL
GET YOU 30 SECONDS.
I PROMISE LECHLT GET THIS
QUESTION.
WE'RE TRYING WE GOT OTHER ISSUES
WE ARE TRYING TO GET TO
INCLUDING A BIG ONE IN A
MINNESOTA.
SENATOR WARREN I WANT TO
CONTINUE ON THE MITCH McCONNELL
THING.
BECAUSE YOU HAVE AMBITIOUS PLANS
YOU HAVE A PLAN FOR THAT, OKAY.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE SUPREME
COURT.
DO YOU HAVE A PLAN TO DEAL WITH
MITCH McCONNELL IF YOU DON'T
BEAT HIM IN THE SENATE, IF HE
STILL SITTING THERE AS THE
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER, IT'S
VERY PLAUSIBLE YOU'D BE ELECTED
PRESIDENT WITH A REPUBLICAN
SENATE DO YOU HAVE A PLAN TO
DEAL WITH MITCH McCONNELL.
>> I DO.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> WE ARE A DEMOCRACY.
AND THE WAY A DEMOCRACY IS
SUPPOSED TO WORK IS THE WILL OF
THE PEOPLE MATTERS.
NOW, WE FOR FAR TOO LONG HAVE
HAD A CONGRESS IN WASHINGTON
THAT IS JUST COMPLETELY
DISMISSED WHAT PEOPLE CARE ABOUT
ACROSS THIS COUNTRY.
THEY HAVE MADE THIS COUNTRY WORK
MUCH BETTER FOR THOSE WHO CAN
MAKE GIANT CONTRIBUTIONS, MADE
IT BETTER FOR THOSE WHO HIRE
ARMIES OF LOBBYISTS AEN LAWYERS
AND NOT FOR THE PEOPLE HOOP.
HERE IS HOW I SEE THIS
HAPPENING.
NUMBER ONE SURE I WANT TO SEE A
DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY IN THE
SENATE.
BUT SHORT OF A DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY IN THE SENATE YOU
BETTER UNDERSTAND THE FIGHT
STILL GOES ON.
IT STARTS IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
AND IT MEANS THAT EVERYBODY WE
ENERGIZE IN 2020 STAYS ON THE
FRONT LINES COME JANUARY 2021.
WE HAVE TO PUSH FUNDING,
OUTSIDE, HAVE LETTEREDSHIP FROM
THE INSIDE AND MAKE THIS
CONGRESS REFLECT THE WILL OF THE
PEOPLE.
>> I'M GOING TO GET A COUPLE OF
YOU IN HERE.
I'M GETTING A COUPLE IN HERE.
30 SECONDS.
CONGRESSMAN DELANEY.
YOU SEEM TO BELIEVE YOU CAN DO
EVERYTHING IN A BIPARTISAN
MANNER.
MITCH McCONNELL DOESN'T OPERATE
THAT WAY.
HE OPERATES DIFFERENTLY.
WHY DO YOU THINK HE IS GOING TO
CONFORM TO YOUR STYLE.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO GET THINGS
DONE.
THAT'S WHY I BELIEVE WE NEED TO
OPERATE IN A BIPARTISAN MANNER.
I'LL SIGN INTO LAW BILLS THAT
COME TO THE WHITE HOUSE THAT ARE
PASSED ON A PARTY LINE BASIS
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT ALL THE BIG TRANSFORMATIVE
THINGS WE HAVE DONE IN THIS
COUNTRY'S HISTORY HAVE HAPPENED
WHEN HUGE MAJORITIES OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE GET BEHIND THEM.
WHICH IS WHY WE NEED REAL
SOLUTIONS, NOT IMPOSSIBLE
PROMISEDS.
WE NEED TO PUT FORTH IDEAS
WHETHER IT'S ON HEALTHCARE
CREATING UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE
SO EVERY AMERICAN GETS HEALTH
CARE BUT NOT RUNNING ON MAKING
PRIVATE INSURANCE ILLEGAL.
THE GUN ISSUE IS RELATED.
THE GUN SAFETY ISSUE IS RELATED.
I CAN'T TELL YOU HOW MANY TIMES
I'VE BEEN WITH FOLKS IN WESTERN
MARYLAND AND THEY'VE SAID TO ME,
YOU KNOW, DEMOCRATS DON'T DO
ANYTHING FOR US.
REPUBLICANS DON'T DO ANYTHING
FOR US.
YOU FIGHT ALL THE TIME.
SO THEY VOTE ON THAT SINGLE
ISSUE.
>> OKAY.
>> IF WE BECOME THE PARTY OF
GETTING THINGS DONE.
>> I UNDERSTAND.
>> FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WITH
THE REAL LUGS NOM IMPOSSIBLE
PROMISING.
>> SENATOR BOOKER, 30 SECONDS,
HOW DO YOU DEAL WITH MITCH --
YOU'VE BEEN IN THE SENATE.
YOU CAN'T GET BILTS ON THE FLOOR
RIGHT NOW WITH MITCH McCONNELL.
PRESIDENTS CAN'T DO IT.
IS PRESIDENT BOOKER GETTING HIS
BILLS ON THE FLOOR WITH SENATOR
McCONNELL
>> WHEN I GOT TO THE UNITED
STATES SENATE AS AN
AFRICAN-AMERICAN MAN IN A OF
COURSEN AMERICAN DOMINATED
COMMUNITY I KNEW ONE OF THE
BIGGEST ISSUES WAS CRIMINAL
JUSTICE REFORM FROM POLICE
ACCOUNTABILITY TO DEALING WITH
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE A NATION
WITH MORE AFRICAN-AMERICANS
UNDER CRIMINAL SUPERVISION THAN
ALL THE SLAVES IN 1850 A WHEN I
GOT TO THE SENATE PEOPLE TOLD ME
WE COULDN'T GET COMPREHENSIVE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE DONE.
I BOUGHT ON THAT BILL.
BUILT COAL I GUESSES TODAY WE
PASSED THE FIRST STEP ACT NOT AS
FAR AS I WANT TO GO BUT
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WILL BE LISH
LIBER EIGHTED I'VE TAKEN ON
TOUGH PROBLEMS PEOPLED WHO
PEOPLE SAID WE CAN'T ACHIEVE AND
GOT THINGS ACCOMPLISHED.
>> THANK YOU SENATOR BOOKER NEXT
QUESTION.
>> HOLD ON, GOVERNOR YOU'RE
GOING TO BE HAPPY WITH WHERE
GOVERNOR INK INSLEE THIS NEXT
ISSUE IS TO YOU.
YOU GOT ME?
>> GOT ME.
>> YOU HAVE STAKED YOUR
CANDIDACY ON THE ISSUE OF
CLIMATE CHANGE.
IT'S FIRST SECOND AND THIRD
PRIORITY FOR YOU.
YOU SAID IT'S ALL THE ISSUES.
LET'S GET SPECIFIC.
WE'RE HERE IN MIAMI ALREADY
EXPERIENCING SERIOUS FLOODING ON
SUNNY KEAYS AS A RESULT OF SEA
LEVEL RISE.
PARTS OF MIAMI BEACH AND THE
KEYS COULD BE UNDER WATER IN OUR
LIFETIME.
DOES YOUR PLAN SAVE MIAMI.
>> YES FIRST BY TAKING AWAY THE
PILL BUSTER FROM MITCH McCONNELL
TO START WITH.
WE HAVE TO DO THAT.
LOOK, WE ARE THE FIRST
GENERATION TO FEEL THE STING OF
CLIMATE CHANGE.
AND WE ARE THE LAST THAT CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
OUR TOWNS ARE BURNING.
THE FIELDS ARE FLODING.
MIAMI IS INUNDATED.
WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THIS IS A
CLIMATE CRISIS.
AN EMERGENCY.
AND IT IS A OUR LAST CHANCE IN
THE ADMINISTRATION NEXT ONE TO
DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
AND WE NEED TO DO WHAT I'VE DONE
IN MY STATE.
WE PASSED A 10 OH% CLEAN
ELECTRICAL GRID BILL.
WE NOW HAVE A VISION STATEMENT
AND MY PLAN PLAN HAS BEEN CALLED
THE GOLD STANDARD OF PUTTING
PEOPLE TO WORK.
BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT THING ON
THIS AND THE BIGGEST DECISION
FOR THE AMERICAN PUBLIC IS, WHO
IS GOING TO MAKE THIS THE FIRST
PRIORITY?
AND I AM THE CANDIDATE AND THE
ONLY ONE WHO SAYS THIS HAS TO BE
THE TOP PRIORITY OF THE UNITED
STATES.
THE ORGANIZING PRINCIPLE TO
MOBILIZE THE UNITED STATES SO
THAT WE CAN DO WHAT WE'VE ALWAYS
DONE, LEAD THE WORLD AND INVENT
THE FUTURE AND PUT 8 MILLION
PEOPLE TO WORK THAT'S WHAT WE
ARE GOING TO DO.
>> GOVERNOR.
>> CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE YOU ALSO
PUT OUT A BIG CLIMATE CHANGE
PLAN FROM YOUR CAMPAIGN.
YOU WANT BIG CHANGES IN A SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME.
INCLUDING SWITCHING TO RENEWABLE
ENERGY.
SWITCHING FROM GAS POWERED CARS
TO ELECTRIC ONES WHAT'S THE
ABOUT A VOTE WHO WANTS TO DO
THAT BUT WHAT ABOUT A GOVERNMENT
BEING ORDER ORDERING PEOPLE HOW
TO LIVE.
>> YOU HAVE TO BRING EVERYBODY
IN THE SLAUGSS AND CHALLENGES
AND WE FACE.
THAT'S WHY WE TRAVEL EVERYWHERE
LISTENING TO EVERYONE.
WE WERE IN PACIFIC JUNCTION, A
TOWN THAT HAD NEVER MEANINGFULLY
FLOODED BEFORE UP AGAINST THE
MISSOURI RIVER IN IOWA.
AND EVERY HOME IN THE COMMUNITY
HAD FLOODED.
THERE WERE FARMS JUST OUTSIDE OF
THE PACIFIC JUNCTION THAT WERE
EFFECTIVELY LAKES.
THOSE FARMERS ALREADY UNDER
WATER IN DEBT, THEIR MARKETS
CLOSED TO THEM BY A TRADE WAR
UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION.
AND NOW THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
DO.
WE IN OUR ADMINISTRATION ARE
GOING TO FUND RESILIENCY IN
THOSE COMMUNITIES IN MIAMI, IN
HOUSTON, TEXAS.
THOSE PLACES THAT ARE ON THE
FRONT LINES OF CLIMATE CHANGE
TODAY.
WE'RE GOING TO MOBILIZE $5
TRILLION IN THE ECONOMY IN THE
NEXT TEN YEARS.
FREE OURSELVES FROM DEPENDENS ON
FOSSIL FUEL AND PUT FARMERS AND
RANCHERS IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT.
RENEWABLE AND SUSTAINABLE
AGRICULTURE TO MAKE SURE WE
CAPTURE MORE CARBON FROM THE AIR
AND KEEP IT IN THE SOIL.
PAYING FARMERS IF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES THEPTS TO
PROVIDE.
IF ALL OF US DO ALL WE CAN THEN
WE CAN KEEP THIS PLANET FROM
WARMING ANOTHER TWO DEGREES
CELSIUS AND ENSURE WE MATCH WHAT
THIS COUNTRY CAN DO AND LIVE UP
TO THE PROMISED AND PENSION.
>> 30 SECONDS, SECRETARY CASTRO,
DOES -- WHO PAYS FOR THE
MITIGATION TO CHIEMT, WHETHER
BUILDING SEA WALL, FOR PEOPLE
THAT ARE PERHAPS LIVING IN
PLACES THAT THEY SHOULDN'T BE
LIVING?
IS THIS A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
ISSUE THAT NEED TO DO THAT?
DO THEY HAVE TO MOVE THESE
PEOPLE?
WHAT DO YOU DO ABOUT THAT WHERE
MAYBE THEY'RE -- THEY'RE
BUILDING A HOUSE SOMEPLACE THAT
ISN'T SAFE?
WHO PAYS TO BUILD THAT HOUSE?
HOW MUCH SHOULD THE GOVERNMENT
BE BAILING THEM OUT.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT REPRESENTS
THE VAST MAJORITY OF ISSUE.
MY FIRST VISIT AFTER I ANNOUNCED
MY CANDIDACY WASN'T TO IOWA OR
NEW HAMPSHIRE IT WAS TO SAN JUAN
PUERTO RICO.
BECAUSE PEOPLE SHOULD KNOW IF
I'M ELECTED PRESIDENT, EVERYBODY
WILL COUNT.
AND YOU KNOW, I'M ONE OF THE FEW
CANDIDATES IN THE RACE WITH
EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE.
WITH A TRACK RECORD OF GETTING
THINGS DONE.
WHEN I WAS MAYOR OF SAN ANTONIO
WE MOVED THE LOCAL PUBLIC
UTILITY.
WE BEGAN TO SHIFT FROM COAL
FIRED PLANT TO SOLAR AND OTHER
RENEWABLE AND ALSO CREATED MORE
THAN 800 JOBS DOING THAT.
WHEN I WAS HUD SECRETARY WE
WORKED ON THE NATIONAL DISASTER
RESILIENCE COMPETITION TO INVEST
IN COMMUNITIES TRYING TO REBUILD
FROM NATURAL DISASTERS IN A
SUSTAINABLE WAY.
>> OKAY.
>> THAT'S THE WAY THAT WE HELP
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE ALL SAFER
IN THE YEARS TO COME AND THAT WE
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE IF I'M EKT
EYED PRESIDENT THE FIRST THING I
WOULD DO LIKE SENATOR KLOBUCHAR
ALSO SAID IS SIGN EXECUTIVE
ORDER RECOMMITTING US TO THE
PARIS CLIMATE ACCORD.
>> THANK YOU.
CONGRESSMAN RYAN I HAVE A FULL
QUESTION FOR YOU HERE WHICH IS
SIMPLY THAT YOU'RE -- THERE ARE
A LOT OF CLIMATE PLANS INCLUDE
PRICING CASH BE TAXING CARBON
THIS PROPOSAL HAS BEEN TRIED IN
A FEW PLACES WHETHER WEATHER
STATE WHERE VOTERS VOTE TO DO
DOWN.
YOU HAVE THE YELLOW VEST
MOVEMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
ONE PARTY REJECTED OUT OF FEAR
OF THE COST OF CLIMATE CHANGE
SORT OF BEING PUT ON THE BACKS
OF THE CONSUMER.
IF PRICING CARBON IS JUST
POLITICALLY IMPOSSIBLE HOW DO WE
PAY FOR CLIMATE MITIGATION?
>> WELL, THERE IS A VARIETY OF
DIFFERENT WAYS TO PAY.
WE TALKED ABOUT DIFFERENT WAYS
OF RAISING REVENUE.
I THINK WE HAVE TO BUILD OUR WAY
OUT OF THIS AND GROW OUR WAY
OUT.
LET ME TALK RELEVANT REAL QUICK
TO THE PREVIOUS QUESTION ABOUT
REAL POLITICS WE COULD TALK
ABOUT CLIMATE, GUNS, TALK ABOUT
ALL OF THESE ISSUES THAT WE ALL
CARE ABOUT.
WE HAVE A PERCEPTION PROBLEM
WITH THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
WE ARE NOT CONNECTING TO THE
WORKING CLASS PEOPLE IN THE VERY
STATES THAT I REPRESENT IN OHIO,
IN THE INDUSTRIAL MIDWEST.
WE HAVE LOST ALL CONNECTION.
WE HAVE GOT TO CHANGE THE CENTER
OF GRAVITY OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY FROM BEING COASTAL AND
ELITELE -- ELITIST AND IVY
LEAGUE, WHICH IS THE PERCEPTION
TO SOMEBODY FROM THE FORGOTTEN
COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE BEEN LEFT
BEHIND THE LAST 30 YEARS.
TOGETHER THE WORKERS BACK ON OUR
SIDE.
SO WE CAN SAY WE'RE GOING TO
BUILD ELECTRIC VEHICLES, BUILD
SOLAR PANELS.
IF YOU WANT TO BEAT MITCH
McCONNELL THIS BETTER BE A
WORKING CLASS PARTY IF YOU WANT
TO GO TO KENTUCKY AND TAKE HIS
REAR END OUT AND TAKE LINDSEY
YAUM OUT YOU GOT TO HAVE THE
BLUE COLLAR PARTY THAT GOES IN
THE TEXTILE FACTORIES IN NORTH
CAROLINA.
>> THANK YOU CONGRESSMAN RYAN.
>> ALL I'M SAYING IF WE DON'T
DRESS THE FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM
WITH OUR CONNECTION TO WORKERS
WHITE BLACK BROWN, GAY STRAIT,
WORKING CLASS PEOPLE NONE GETS
DONE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE --
CONGRESSMAN DELANEY I'M GOING TO
GET TO YOU.
>> I INTRODUCED THE ONLY
BIPARTISAN CARBON TAX BILL.
>> 30 SECONDS, GOV.
>> ALL THE ECONOMISTS AGREE THAT
A CARBON PRICING MECHANISM
WORKS.
YOU JUST HAVE TO DO IT RIGHT.
YOU CAN'T PUT A PROVIDES ON
CARBON, RAISE ENERGY PRICES AND
NOT GIVE THE MONEY BACK TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
MY PROPOSAL WHICH IS PUT A PRICE
ON CARBON GIVE A DIVIDEND BACK
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, IT GOES
OUT ONE POCKET, BACK IN THE
OTHER.
>> THANK YOU CONGRESSMAN.
>> I CAN GET THAT PASSED MY
FIRTS YEAR OF PRESIDENT WITH A
COALITION OF EVERY EXACT IN THE
CONGRESS AND THE REPUBLICANS
LIVING IN COASTAL STATES.
>> THANK YOU GOVERNOR.
>> FLORIDA, THEY ACTUALLY CARE
ABOUT THIS.
>> THEY DO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THIS HAS TO BE OUR WAY
FORWARD IF WE ARE SERIOUS ABOUT
THE ISSUE.
>> CONGRESSWOMAN GABBARD, WE'RE
MOVING HERE.
ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS YOU DID
AFTER LAUNCHING YOUR CAMPAIGN
WAS TO ISSUE AN APOLOGY TO THE
LGBTQ COMMUNITY ABOUT YOUR PAST
ANSWERS AND STANCES AND
STATEMENTS ON GAY RIGHTS.
AFTER THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
ROLLBACK OF CIVIL RIGHTS
PROTECTION FOR MANY IN THAT
COMMUNITY, WHY SHOULD VOTERS IN
THAT COMMUNITY OR VOTERS THAT
CARE ABOUT THIS ISSUE IN GENERAL
TRUST YOU NOW?
>> LET ME SAY THAT THERE IS NO
ONE IN OUR GOVERNMENT AT ANY
LEVEL WHO HAS THE RIGHT TO TELL
ANY AMERICAN WHO THEY SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO LOVE OR WHO SHE
SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO MARRY.
MY RECORD IN CONGRESS OVER SIX
YEARS SHOWS MY COMMITMENT TO
FIGHTING FOR LGBTQ EQUALITY.
I SERVE ON THE EQUALITY CAUCUS
AND RECENT VOTED FOR PASSAGE OF
THE EQUALITY ACT.
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> MAYBE MANY IN THE COUNTRY CAN
RELATE TO THE FACT I GREW UP IN
A SOCIALLY CONSERVATIVE HOME
HELD VIEWS WHEN I WAS YOUNG I NO
LONGER SERVE TODAY.
I SERVED WITH LGBTQ SERVICE
MEMBERS IN TRAINING AND DOWN
RANGE.
THEY WOULD GIVE THEIR LIFE FOR
ME AND I WOULD GIVE MY LIFE FOR
THEM.
IT'S THIS COMMITMENT I CARRY
THROUGH ASP OF THE UNITED STATES
RECOGNIZING THERE ARE TILL
PEOPLE FACING SKRIMS IN THE
WORKPLACE.
STILL PEOPLE WHO ARE UNABLE TO
FIND A HOME FOR FAMILIES.
AND IT'S THIS KIND OF
DISCRIMINATION THAT WE NEED TO
ADDRESS.
>> THANK YOU CONGRESSWOMAN.
>> IF I CAN ADD TO THAT.
>> 30 SECONDS.
>> THIS IS NOT ENOUGH.
CIVIL RIGHTS IS THE PLACE TO
BEGIN.
BUT IN THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
CIVIL RIGHTS COMMUNITY ANOTHER
PLACE TO FOCUS ON IS STOP OF
LYNCHING OF AFRICAAMERICANS.
WE DO NOT TALK ABOUT
TRANSAMERICANS, ESPECIALLY
AFRICAN-AMERICANS TRANSAMERICAN
AND THE INCREDIBLY HIGH RATE OF
MURDER RIGHT NOW.
WE DON'T TALK ENOUGH ABOUT HOW
MANY CHILDREN 30% OF LGBTQ KIDS
WHO DON'T GO TO SCHOOL BECAUSE
OF FEAR.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH JUST TO BE ON
THE EQUALITY ACT.
I'M AN ORIGINAL CORESPONSE ARE.
WE NEED A PRESIDENT THAT WILL
FIGHT TO PROTECT LGBTQ AMERICANS
EVERY SINGLE DAY.
>> THANK YOU SENATOR BOOKER.
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR ON THE
ISSUE OF CIVIL RIGHTS, FOR
DECADES IT -- CIVIL RIGHTS AND
DEMOGRAPHICS HONESTLY AND
POLITICS.
FOR DECADES THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
HAS COUNTED ON AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTER TURNOUT TO STEP BUN AS
WINNING ON NATIONAL LEVEL.
DEMOCRATS ARE COUNTING ON THE
LATINO COMMUNITY NOW AND IN THE
FUTURE IN THE SAME WAY.
WHAT HAVE YOU DONE FOR BLACK AND
LATINO VOTERS THAT SHOULD
INCLUDE THEM ABOUT GOING TO THE
POLLS FOR YOU.
>> MY LIFE AND CAREER AND WORK
IN THE SENATE HAS BEEN ABOUT
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES.
AND TO ME IN MEANS BETTER CHILD
CARE FOR EVERYONE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND WHEN YOU WANT TO HAVE AN
ECONOMY THAT WORKS YOU NEED TO
TO HAVE RETIREMENT THAT WORKS.
YOU NEED TO HAVE PUBLIC SCHOOLS
THAT WORK.
AND YOU ALSO NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT -- THOSE COMMUNITIES
ARE ABLE TO GET KNOWS JOBS OF
THE FUTURE, THE S.T.E.M. JOBS.
DONALD TRUMP ONE OF THE FIRST
BILLS THAT HE SIGNED OF THE 34
HE SIGNED WHERE I WAS THE LEAD
DEMOCRAT, OKAY THAT'S A FIRST UP
HERE, WAS ONE THAT THAT WAS
ABOUT THAT.
MAKING SURE MINORITIES COMMUNITY
MEMBERS COULD SHARE IN THOSE
JOBS.
SO TO ME, THIS IS ABOUT A FEW
THINGS.
IT'S ABOUT AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN
WOMAN GOING TO A HOSPITAL IN NEW
ORLEANS SAYS HER HANDS ARE
SWOLLEN AND THEN DOCTOR IGNORES
HER BABY DIES.
IT'S ABOUT THE FACT THAT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN MAKE 61
CENTS FOR EVERY DOLLAR A WHITE
MAN MAKES.
IN SHORT WE NEED TO ONE -- I
WILL DO IN IN THE IRIS FIRST 100
DAYS AS PRESIDENT MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE CAN VOTE AT THIS TABLE.
EVERYONE CAN VOTE IN THIS
COUNTRY AND ALSO GO TO THE NEXT
STEP OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM.
SENATOR BOOKER AND I WORKED ON
THAT FIRST STEP ACT.
BUT WE SHOULD GO TO THE SECOND
STEP ACT.
WHICH IS TO HELP ALL OUR
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE.
>> SENATOR THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
30 SECOND FOLLOW UP TO YOU
SECRETARY CASTRO THIS IS A 70%
LATINO CITY IN MIAMI.
YOU ARE THE ONLY LATINO EXACT
RUNNING THIS YEAR IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE.
>> [ APPLAUSE ]
>> IS THAT ENOUGH AS AN ANSWER
WHAT SENATOR CHOEB CHAR ECONOMIC
JUSTICE AGENDA IS THAT ENOUGH TO
MOBILIZE LATINO VOTE TORS STAND
WITH THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN A
BIG WAY.
>> I ALSO THINK WE HAVE TO
RECOGNIZE RACIAL AND SOCIAL
JUSTICE.
I WAS IN CHARLESTON NOT LONG
AGO.
AND I REMEMBERED I REMEMBERED
THAT DYLAN ROOF WENT THE MOTHER
EMMANUEL AME CHURCH AND MURDERED
NINE PEOPLE WORSHIPPING AND THEN
APPREHENDED BY POLICE WITHOUT
INCIDENT.
WHAT ABOUT ERIC GARDENER AND
TAMIR RICE AND LA QUAN McDONALD
AND SANDRA BLAND ANTONIO.
I'M PROUD I'M THE ONLY CANDIDATE
SO FAR THAT PROCESS UT FORWARD
LEGISLATION THAT WOULD REFORM
THE POLICING SYSTEM IN AMERICA
AND MAKE SURE NO MATTER THE
COLOR OF THE SKIN THAT YOU ARE
TREATED THE SAME, INCLUDING
LATINOS.
WHO ARE MISS TREATED TOO OFTEN
BY POLICE.
>> SECRETARY CASTRO THANK YOU.
>> LET ME GO TO LESTER HOLT WHO
HAS A QUESTION A VIEWER
QUESTION.
>> I'M OVER HERE CHUCK, THANKS.
WE ASKED VOTERS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY TO SNIT QUESTIONS TO THE
CANDIDATES.
LET ME READ ONE FROM JEAN IN NEW
YORK WHO SUBMITTED THIS.
HE ASKED DOES THE UNITED STATES
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO PROTECT
IN THE CASE OF GENOCIDE OR
CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY DO WE
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
INTERVENE TO PROTECT PEOPLE
THREATENED BY THEIR GOVERNMENTS
EVEN WHEN ATROCITIES DO NOT
AFFECT AMERICAN CORE INTERESTS?
I'D LIKE TO DIRECT THAT QUESTION
TO CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE.
>> JOHN, I APPRECIATE THE
QUESTION.
THE ANSWER IS YES.
BUT THAT ACTION SHOULD ALWAYS BE
UNDERTAKEN WITH ALLIES AND
PARTNERS AND FRIENDS.
WHEN THE UNITED STATES PRESENTS
A UNITED FRONT WE HAVE A MUCH
BETTER CHANCE OF ACHIEVING OUR
FOREIGN POLICY AIMS.
AND PREVENTING THE KIND OF
GENOCIDE TO WHICH YOU REFER, THE
KIND OF GENOCIDE WE SAW IN
RWANDA, THE COINED OF GENOCIDE
WE WANT TO STOP GOING FORWARD.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY UNDER THIS
ADMINISTRATION, PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS ALIENATED OUR ALLIES AND OUR
FRIENDS.
AND OUR ALLIANCES.
HE HAS DIMINISHED OUR STANDING
IN THE WORLD.
AND MADE US WEAKER AS A COUNTRY.
LESS ABLE TO CONFRONT CHALLENGES
WHETHER IT'S IRAN OR NORTH KOREA
OR VLADIMIR PUTIN IN REFRESH WHO
ATTACKED AND INVADED OUR
DEMOCRACY IN SOUF AND WHO
PRESIDENT TRUMP OFFERED ANOTHER
INVITATION TO DO THE SAME.
HE HAS EMBRACED STRONGMEN AND
DICTATORS AT THE EXPENSE OF THE
GREAT DEMOCRACIES.
AS PRESIDENT I WILL MAKE SURE WE
LIVE OUR VALUES IN OUR FOREIGN
POLICY.
I WILL ENSURE THAT WE STRENGTHEN
THE ALIGNS AND PARTNERSHIPS AND
FRIENDSHIPS AND MEET ANY
CHALLENGE WE FACE TOGETHER.
THAT MAKES AMERICA STRONGER.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE WAR --
>> CONGRESSMAN.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE WAR POWERS ACT
BE PART OF THE EE KWIGS WITH
DEEP RESPECT TO THE CONGRESSMAN.
WE LEARNED PAINFUL LESSONS AS
AMERICANS WE WENT TO WAR WITHOUT
CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION.
MY DAD SERVED IN THE PACIFIC IN
THE WORLD WAR II IN THE U.S.
ARMY.
BAMGTS OF OKINAWA, HAD HALF HIS
LEG BLOWN OFF CAME HOME WITH
SCARS PHYSICAL AND EMOTIONAL HE
SPIRLED DOWNWARD AND ULTIMATELY
TOOK HIS LIFE.
AND THAT BATTLE DIDN'T KILL HIM
BUT THAT WAR DID.
AND LOOK, EVEN IN THE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS -- I THINK
WE SHOULD BE READY, CONGRESSMAN
TO INTERVENE, GOD FORBID A
GENOCIDE.
BUT NOT WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL.
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS IN THE
CONGRESS HAVE NOT CHALLENGED
PRESIDENTS AND LET THEM GET AWAY
WITH RUNNING THE MILITARY
WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL PRUCHL.
WE LEARNED A LESSON IN VIETNAM
WE SEEM TO HAVE FORGOTTEN.
>> I WANT TO PICK UP THIS POINT
AND PUT THIS CONGRESSMAN RYAN.
TODAY THE TALIBAN CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR KILLING TWO
AMERICAN SERVICE MEMBERS IN
AFGHANISTAN.
LEADERS ARE ZPRAT AS PONN
ABPRESIDENT TRUMP BOTH SAID THEY
WANT TO END U.S. INVOLVEMENT IN
AFGHANISTAN WITH YOU IT ISN'T
OVER FOR AMERICA.
WHICH ISN'T IT OVER?
WHY CAN'T PRESIDENTS OF
DIFFERENT PARTIES AND TEMPER MTS
GET US OUT OF THERE?
AND HOW COULD YOU.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT QUESTION.
BUT I'VE BEEN IN CONGRESS 17
YEARS.
AND 12 OF THE YEARS I'VE SAT ON
THE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE,
THE DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE OR THE ARMED SERVICES
COMMITTEE.
AND THE LESSON I LEARNED OVER
THE YEARS TESLA YOU HAVE TO STAY
ENGAGED IN THE SITUATIONS.
NOBODY LIKES IT.
IT'S LONG.
IT'S TEDIOUS.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE HAVE -- I WOULD
SAY WE MUST BE IN ENGAGED IN
THIS.
WE MUST HAVE OUR STATE
DEPARTMENT ENGAGED.
MUST HAVE OUR MILITARY ENGAGED
TO THE EXTENT THEY NEED TO BE.
BUT THE REALITY OF IT IS THIS
PRESIDENT DOESN'T EVEN HAVE
PEOPLE APPOINTED IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT TO DEAL WITH THESE
THINGS.
WHETHER WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
CENTRAL AMERICA, WHETHER WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IRAN, WHETHER
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AFGHANISTAN.
WE HAVE TO BE COMPLETELY
ENGAGED.
AND HERE IS WHY, BECAUSE THESE
FLARE-UPS DISTRACT US FROM THE
REAL PROBLEMS IN THE COUNTRY.
IF GETTING A DRONE SHOT DOWN FOR
$130 MILLION BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT IS DISTRACTED, THAT'S
$130 MILLION THAT WE COULD BE
SPENDING IN PLACES LIKE
YUNGSTOWN OHIO OB FLINT, HAWAII
OR REBUILDING.
>> CONGRESSMAN RYAN I GIVE YOU
30 SECONDS TO JUMP OFF WHAT HE
SAID.
>> TELL THE PARENTS OF THE TWO
SOLDIERS WHO WERE JUST KILLED IN
AFGHANISTAN WELL WE JUST HAVE TO
BE ENGAGED.
AS A SOLDIER I WILL TELL THAT
YOU ANSWER IS UNACCEPTABLE.
WE HAVE TO BRING OUR TROOPS HOME
FROM AFGHANISTAN.
WE ARE IN A PLACE IN AFGHANISTAN
WHERE WE HAVE LOST SO MANY
LIVES.
WE HAVE SPENT SO MUCH MONEY.
MONEY THAT'S COMING OUT OF EVERY
ONE OF OUR POCKETS.
MONEY THAT SHOULD BE GOING INTO
COMMUNITIES HERE AT HOME MEETING
THE NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE HERE AT
HOME.
WE ARE NO BETTER OFF IN
AFGHANISTAN TODAY THAN WE WERE
WHEN THIS WAR BEGAN.
THIS IS WAY IT'S SO IMPORTANT TO
HAVE A PRESIDENT COMMANDER IN
CHIEF WHO KNOWS THE COST OF WAR
AND READY TO DO THE JOB ONDY
ONE.
I AM READY TO DO THAT JOB WHEN I
WALK INTO THE OVAL OFFICE.
>> ALL RIGHT I'M GOING TO GO
DONE THE LINE.
>> I'M GOING TO GO DOWN THE LINE
HERE.
YOU KNOW WHAT YOU FELT LIKE SHE
WAS RESPONDING TO YOU YOU GET 30
SECONDS FAIR ENOUGH.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT.
>> I HEAR WHAT YOU ARE SAYING.
>> I DON'T WANT TO BE ENGAGED.
I WISH WE WERE SPENDING ALL THE
MONEY IN PLACES THAT I
REPRESENTED THAT HAVE BEEN
COMPLETELY FORGOTTEN.
AND WE WERE REBUILDING.
BUT THE REALITY OF IT IS THAT
THE UNITED STATES ISN'T ENGAGED.
THE TALIBAN WILL GROW.
AND THEY WILL HAVE BIGGER,
BOLDER TERRORIST ACCURACY A.
WE HAVE TO HAVE SOME PRESENCE
THERE.
>> THE TALIBAN WAS THERE LONG
BEFORE WE CAME IN.
THEY WILL BE THERE LONG AFTER WE
LEAVE.
>>' THEN.
>> THINKING WE ARE GOING TO
SOMEHOW SQUASH THIS TALIBAN
THAT'S BEEN THERE IN EVERY OTHER
COUNTRY.
>> WE WEREN'T IN THERE THEY
STARTED FLYING PLANES INTO OUR
BUILDINGS.
I'M JUST SAYING RIGHT NOW THAT
WE HAVE.
>>ABLE AT AEN DIDN'T ATTACK US
ON 9/11.
I'LL TELL YOU THIS.
>> WELL I HAVE.
>> AL QAEDA ATTACKED ON 9/11
THAT'S WHICH WE JOINED THE
MILITARY TO GO AFTER AL QAEDA
NOT THE TALIBAN.
>> THE TALIBAN.
>> THE TALIBAN WAS PROTECTING
THE PEOPLE PLOTTING AGAINST US.
ALL I'M SAYING IS IF WE WANT TO
GO IN TO ELECTIONS AND WE WANT
TO SAY THAT WE GOT TO WITHDRAW
FROM THE WORLD, THAT'S WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS SAYING.
WE CAN'T -- I WOULD LOVE FOR US
TO.
>> I WANT TO GO DOWN THE LINE
FINISH UP FOREIGN POLICY.
SIMPLE QUESTION.
WHAT'S THE BIGGEST -- WHO IS THE
GEOPOLITICAL THREAT TO THE
UNITED STATES GIVE ME A ONE WORD
ANSWER, CONGRESSMAN DELANEY.
>> COULD YOU REPEAT THE.
>> GREATEST GEOPOLITICAL THREAT
TO THE UNITED STATES RIGHT NOW
CONGRESSMAN DELANEY.
>> THE BIGGEST POLITICAL
CHALLENGE IS CHINA BUT THE
BIGGEST GEOPOLITICAL THREAT
REMAINS NUCLEAR WEAPON ZBLOOPS
GOVERNOR INSLEE.
>> THE BIGGEST THREAT TO THE
UNITED STATES OF THE UNITED
STATES IS DONALD TRUMP.
>> CONGRESSMAN GABBARD.
>> THE GREATEST.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> THE GREATEST GEOPOLITICAL
THREAT.
>> THE GREATEST THREAT WE FACE
IS THE FACT THAT WE ARE AT
GREATEST GREATER RISK OF NUCLEAR
WAR THAN EVER BEFORE IN HISTORY
TWO THREATS, ECONOMIC THREATS,
CHF BUT OUR MAJOR THREAT RIGHT
NOW IS WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
MIDWEST WITH IRAN IF WE DOT
DON'T GET IT TOGETHER.
>> ONE OR TWO WORDS.
>> OUR EXISTENTIAL THREAT IS
CLIMATE CHANGE WE HAVE TO
CONFRONT IT BEFORE IT'S TOO
RATE.
>> SENATOR WARREN.
>> CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION AND
CLAIM CHANGES.
>> SECRETARY CASTRO.
>> CHINA AND CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> CONGRESSMAN RYAN.
>> CHINA WITHOUT A QUESTION.
THEY'RE WIPING US OUT AROUND THE
WORLD CHECKICALLY.
>> AND MR. MAYOR.
>> RUSSIA BECAUSE THEY ARE
TRYING TO UNDERMINE OUR
DEMOCRACY AND DOING PRETTY DAMN
GOOD JOB AND WE NEED TO STOP
THEM.
>> WELL, THANK YOU FOR THAT WIDE
VARIETY OF ANSWERS.
AND I MEAN THAT.
I MEAN THAT -- THAT'S WHAT THIS
DEBATE IS ABOUT.
THIS IS THE BEST PART OF A
DEBATE LIKE THIS.
CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE PB SPECIAL
COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER'S REPORT
OUTLINES MULTIPLE INSS OF
POTENTIAL CRIMINAL BEHAVIORALLY
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
HOUSE SPEAKER SPEAKER PELOSI HAS
RESISTED ANY MOVE TOWARD
IMPEACHMENT IN THE HOUSE.
IF THE HOUSE CHOOSES NOT TO
IMPEACH, AS PRESIDENT WOULD YOU
DO ANYTHING TO ADDRESS THE
POTENTIAL CRIMES OUTLINED IN MR.
MUELLER'S REPORT?
>> YES.
AND I'LL TELL YOU WHY.
>> HOW BY THE WAY IF THE ANSWER
IS YES.
>> ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL
PIECES OF ART IN THE UNITED
STATES CAPITAL IS THE PAINTING
OF JORNL GEORGE WASHINGTON
RESIGNING HIS COMMISSION TO THE
CONTINENTAL CONGRESS AT THE
HEIGHT OF POWER SUBMITTING TO
THE RULE OF THE LAW AND WILL OF
THE PEOPLE.
THAT HAS WITH STOOD THE TEST OF
TIME FOR THE LAST 243 YEARS.
IF WE SET ANOTHER PRECEDENT NOW
THAT A CANDIDATE WHO INVITED THE
PARTICIPATION OF A FOREIGN
POWER, A PRESIDENT WHO SOUGHT TO
OBSTRUCT THE INVESTIGATION INTO
THE INVASION OF OUR DEMOCRACY,
IF WE ALLOW HIM TO GET AWAY WITH
THIS WITH COMPLETE IMPUNITY THEN
WE WILL SET A NEW STANDARD THAT
IS SOME PEOPLE BECAUSE OF THE
POSITION OF POWER AND PUBLIC
TRUST THEY HOLD ARE ABOVE THE
LAW.
AND WE CANNOT ALLOW THAT TO
STAND.
WE MUST BEGIN IMPEACHMENT NOW SO
THAT WE HAVE THE FACTS AND TRUTH
AND WE FOLLOW THEM AS FAR AS
THEY GO AND AS HIGH AS THEY
REACH AND SAVE THE DPKZ AND IF
WE HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT
IN THIS YEAR OR THE YEAR THAT
FOLLOWS THEN UNDER MY
ADMINISTRATION OUR DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE WILL PURSUE THESE FACTS
AND ENSURE THERE ARE
CONSEQUENCES THERE IS
ACCOUNTABILITY AND JUSTICE.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY WE SAVE THIS
COUNTRY.
>> THANK YOU CONGRESSMAN
O'ROURKE.
>> CONGRESSMAN DELANEY BECAUSE
OF THE ACCOUNTABILITY ISSUES
THAT CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE WAS
ZRIBING THERE AND THE REAL
POLITICAL LANDSCAPE IN WHICH
NANCY PELOSI IS SAYING THAT
IMPEACHMENT WILL NOT BE PURSUED
IN THE HOUSE.
IT RAISES THE PROSPECT AND THE
MUELLER REPORT RAISES THE
PROSPECT THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
COULD BE PROSECUTED FOR SOME
POTENTIAL CRIMES DOWN THE LINE.
NO U.S. PRESIDENT HAS EVER BEEN
PROSECUTED FOR CRIMES AFTER
LEAVING OFFICE.
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP COULD OR SHOULD BE THE
FIRST?
>> I GUESS THERE IS ALWAYS A
FIRST.
>> SHOULD HE BE THE FIRST.
>> I DON'T THINK ANYONE IS ABOVE
THE LAW.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE IS ABOVE
THE LAW INCLUDING A THE
PRESIDENT.
I SUPPORT SPEAKER PELOSI'S
DECISIONS SHE IS MAKING IN THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RIGHT
NOW AS SPEAKER.
I THINK SHE KNOWS MORE ABOUT THE
DECISION AS TO WHETHER TO
IMPEACH THE PRESIDENT THAN ANY
OF THE 2020 CANDIDATES COMBINED.
>> CONCEDED.
>> BUT I DO THINK -- I DO
THINK -- NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW
AND THIS PRESIDENT WHO IS
LAWLESS SHOULD NOT BE ABOVE THE
LAW.
BUT I WILL TELL YOU, RACHEL, THE
ONE THING WHEN YOU ARE OUT DOING
AS MUCH CAMPAIGNING AS I HAVE
DONE, FOUR HUNDRED EVENTS ALL 99
COUNTIES IN IOWA THIS IS NOT THE
NUMBER ONE ISSUE THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ASK ABOUT.
IT'S NOT.
THEY WANT TO KNOW WHAT WE'RE
DOING FOR HEALTH CARE.
LOWER PHARMACEUTICAL PRICES HOW
WE BUILD INFRASTRUCTURE WHAT WE
DO TO CREATE JOBS IN THE
COMMUNITIES.
YOU KNOW, LAST YEAR IN OUR
COUNTRY 80% OF THE MONEY FOR
START-UP BUSINESSES WENT TO 50
COUNTIES IN THIS COUNTRY.
THERE IS OVER 3,000 COUNTIES IN
THIS COUNTRY.
THAT'S WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT.
THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON
IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
WITH JOBS IN THE COMMUNITIES
WITH THEIR PAY, WITH THEIR
HEALTH CARE WITH INFRASTRUCTURE,
THESE ARE THE ISSUES AT THE
KITCHEN TABLE POCKETBOOK ISSUES
ARE WHAT MOST AMERICANS CARE
ABOUT.
THEY NEVER ASKED ABOUT THE
MUELLER REPORT.
>> CONGRESSMAN.
>> THEY NEVER ASK ABOUT IT THEY
WANT TO KNOW HOW WE ARE TOFLG
THESE PROGRAMS.
>> YOU'RE OUT OF TIME.
>> SENATOR, WE GOT --
>> WE LET THE REPUBLICANS LUN
RUN OUR ELECTION F2 WE DO NOT DO
SOMETHING ABOUT RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE IN THE ELECTION AND
WE LET MITCH McCONNELL STOP ALL
THE BACK UP PAPER BALLOTS WE ARE
NOT GETTING WHAT WE WANT.
>> I GOT A SNEAKING -- WE BLEW
THROUGH A BREAK WHICH IS GOOD
NEWS TO GIVE YOU MORE TIME.
I GOT TO SNEAK ONE IN NOW.
MORE OF THIS DEBATE PICKING UP
HERE.
IT CONTINUES RIGHT AFTER THIS.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
♪♪
>>> DON'T MISS NIGHT TWO OF THE
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE AS TEN MORE
CANDIDATES BATTLE IT OUT.
TOMORROW AT 9:00 EASTERN ON NBC,
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>>> WE ARE BACK FOR MIAMI.
IT'S TIME NOW FOR CLOSING
STATEMENTS.
EACH CANDIDATE HAS 45 SECONDS.
WE WANT TO BEGIN WITH FORMER
CONGRESSMAN DELANEY.
>> CLOSING NOW.
>> CLOSING 45 SECONDS.
>> WE CAN MAKE -- WE CAN GO ON.
>> TOGETHER WE ARE ON A MISSION.
WE'RE ON A MISSION TO FINE THE
AMERICA THAT'S BEEN LOST, LOST
THROUGH INFIGHTING, LOST THROUGH
INACTION, WE'RE SO MUCH BETTER
THAN THIS.
WE'RE A COUNTRY THAT USED TO DO
THINGS.
WE SAVED THE WORLD.
WE CREATED THE AMERICAN DREAM
FOR MINNEAPOLIS OF PEOPLE LIKE
MYSELF.
THE GRANDSON OF IMMIGRANTS, THE
SON OF A UNION ELECTRICIAN WHO
WENT ON TO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL
BUSINESS LEADER AND CREATE
THOUSANDS OF JOBS.
BUT WE DID THESE THINGS WITH
REAL SOLUTIONS.
NOT WITH IMPOSSIBLE PROMISES.
AND THOSE ARE THE ROOTS THAT WE
HAVE TO GET BACK TO.
I'M RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT TO
SOLVE THESE PROBLEMS.
TO BUILD INFRASTRUCTURE, TO FIX
OUR BROKEN HEALTH CARE SYSTEM,
TO INVEST IN COMMUNITIES THAT
HAVE BEEN LEFT BEHIND, TO
IMPROVE PUBLIC EDUCATION.
I JUST DON'T WANT TO BE YOUR
PRESIDENT TO BE.
>> YOUR 45 SECONDS IS OVER.
>> I WANT TO DO YOUR PRESIDENT
TO DO THE JOB.
>> THANK YOU, ZBLIER THIS IS NOT
ABOUT ME THIS IS ABOUT GETTING
AMERICA WORKING AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> MAYOR DE BLASIO.
MAYOR YOUR CLOSING STATEMENT.
>> IT MATTERS.
IT MATTERS IN THIS FIGHT FOR THE
HEART AND SOUL OF OUR PARTY THAT
WE NOMINATE A CANDIDATE WHO HAS
SEEN THE FACE OF POVERTY AND
DIDN'T JUST TALK ABOUT IT BUT
GAVE PEOPLE $15 MINIMUM WAGE.
IT MATTERS THAT WE NOMINATE A
CANDIDATE WHO SAW THE
DESTRUCTION WROUGHT BY BROKEN
HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS AND GAVE
PEOPLE UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE.
IT MATTERS THAT WE CHOOSE
SOMEONE WHO SAW THE WASTED
POTENTIAL OF OUR CHILDREN DENIED
PREK AND GAVE IT TO EVERY ONE OF
THEM FOR FREE.
THESE THINGS REALLY MATTER.
AND THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT
I'VE DONE IN NEW YORK AND I WANT
TO DO THE SAME FOR THIS WHOLE
COUNTRY.
BECAUSE PUTTING WORKING PEOPLE
FIRST, IT MATTERS.
WE NEED TO TO BE THAT PARTY
AGAIN.
LET'S WORK TOGETHER, WITH YOUR
HELP WE CAN PUT WORKING PEOPLE
FIRST AGAIN IN AMERICA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR GLASS YES.
>> GOVERNOR INSLEE, 45 SECONDS.
>> I HAVE THREE GRAND CHILDREN
WE LOVE THEM ALL.
WHEN I WAS THINKING ABOUT
WHETHER TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT I
MADE A DECISION.
I DECIDED THAT ON MY LAST DAY I
WANTED TO LOOK THEM IN THE EYE
AND TELL THEM I DID EVERYTHING
HUMANLY POSSIBLE TO PROTECT THEM
FROM THE RAF AJS OF THE CLIMATE
CRISIS.
AND I KNOW TO A MORAL CERTAINTY
THAT IF WE DO NOT HAVE THE NEXT
PRESIDENT WHO COMMITS TO THIS AS
THE TOP PRIORITY IT WON'T GET
DONE.
AND "I" THE ONLY CANDIDATE --
FRANKLY I'M SURPRISED -- I'M THE
ONLY CANDIDATE MAKING THIS
COMMITMENT TO MAKE IT THE TOP
PRIORITY.
IF YOU JOIN ME IN THAT
RECOGNITION OF HOW IMPORTANT
THIS IS, WE CAN HAVE A UNIFIED
NATIONAL MISSION.
WE CAN SAVE OURSELVES.
WE CAN CAN SAVE OUR INNER
CHILDREN.
WE CAN SAVE OUR GRANDCHILDREN.
AND WE CAN SAVE LITERALLY THE
LIFE ON THIS PLANET.
THIS IS YOU ARE MOMENT.
>> GOVERNOR, THANK YOU.
>> CONGRESSMAN RYAN, YOUR 40
SECONDS.
>> THERE IS NOTHING WORSE THAN
NOT BEING HEARD.
NOTHING WORSE THAN NOT BEING
SEEN.
AND I KNOW THAT BECAUSE I'VE
REPRESENTED FOR 17 YEARS IN
CONGRESS THE FORGOTTEN
COMMUNITY.
THEY'VE TRIED TO DIVIDE US, WHO
IS WHITE, BLACK, WHITE, GAY,
STRAIGHT, MAN, WOMAN.
THEY RAN AWAY WITH ALL THE GOLD.
BECAUSE THEY DIVIDED THE WORKING
CLASS.
IT'S TIME FOR US TO COME
TOGETHER.
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU FEEL.
BUT I'M READY TO PLAY SOME
OFFENSE.
I COME FROM THE MIDDLE OF
INDUSTRIAL AMERICA.
BUT THESE PROBLEMS ARE ALL OVER
OUR COUNTRY.
THERE IS A TENT TENT CITY IN
L.A.
HOMELESS PEOPLE AND PEOPLE
AROUND THE COUNTRY WHO CAN'T
AFFORD A HOME.
IT'S TIME TO GET BACK ON TRACK.
THE TEACHER IN TEXAS, THE NURSE
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, THE WAITRESS
IN WISCONSIN, ALL OF US COMING
TOGETHER.
PLAYING OFFENSE WITH AN AGENDA
THAT LIFTS EVERYBODY UP.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I WILL ONLY PROPTDS YOU ONE
THING WHEN I WALK IN THE OVAL
OFFICE EVERY MORE THAN YOU WILL
NOT BE FORGOTTEN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOUR VOICE WILL BE HEARD.
>> CONGRESSWOMAN GABD GABBARD
YOU HAVE 45 SECONDS.
>> OUR NATION WAS FOUNDED ON THE
PRINCIPLES OF SERVICE ABOVE
SEVEN.
PEOPLE WHO FLED KINGS, LITERALLY
PROSPERSED ON THE BACKS OF THE
SACRIFICES OF PEOPLE COMING HERE
TO THIS COUNTRY, INSTEAD PUTTING
IN PLACE A GOVERNMENT THAT IS
OF, BY AND FOR THE PEOPLE.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT WE HAVE.
INSTEAD WE HAVE A GOVERNMENT
THAT IS OF, BY AND FOR THE RICH
AND POWERFUL.
THIS MUST END.
AS PRESIDENT, OUR WHITE HOUSE,
OUR WHITE HOUSE WILL BE A BEACON
OF LIGHT PROVIDING HOPE AND
OPPORTUNITY, USHERING IN A NEW
CENTURY WHERE EVERY SINGLE
PERSON WILL BE ABLE TO GET THE
HEALTH CARE THEY NEED.
WHERE WE WILL HAVE CLEAN AIR TO
BREATHE AND CLEAN WATER TO
DRINK.
WE WILL HAVE GOOD PAYING JOBS
AND A NEW GREEN ECONOMY.
JOIN ME IN USHERING IN THIS THIS
NEW CENTURY PEACE, PROSPERITY,
OPPORTUNITY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.
>> CONGRESSWOMAN, THANK YOU.
>> YOU HAVE 45 SECONDS, SIR.
>> [ SPEAKING SPANISH ].
>> THE VERY FACT THAT I CAN SAY
THAT TONIGHT SHOWS THE PRG THAT
WE HAVE MADE IN THIS COUNTRY.
LIKE MANY OF YOU I KNOW THE
PROMISE OF AMERICA.
MY GRANDMOTHER CAME MERE WHEN
SHE WAS 7 YEARS OLD A AS OF AN
IMMIGRANT FROM MEXICO AND TWO
GENERATIONS LATER ONE OF HERP
GRANDSONS IS SERVING THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS AND THE OTHER
ONE IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
>> IF I'M ELECTED PRESIDENT I
WILL WORK HARD EVERY DAY SO THAT
YOU AND YOUR FAMILY CAN GET GOOD
HEALTH CARE.
YOUR CHILD CAN GET A GOOD
EDUCATION AND YOU CAN HAVE GOOD
JOB OPPORTUNITIES WHETHER LIVING
IN A SMALL TOWN OR BIG CITY.
AND ON JANUARY 20th, 2021 WE'LL
SAY ADIOS TO DONALD TRUMP.
>> SENATOR KLOBUCHAR, THE FLOOR
IS YOURS.
>> THREE THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT
ME.
FIRST, I LISTEN TO PEOPLE AND
THAT'S HOW I GET THINGS DONE.
THAT'S MY FOCUS.
I HAVE A TRACT RECORD OF PASSING
OVER 100 BILLS WHERE I'M THE
LEAD DEMOCRATIC BECAUSE I
LISTEN, AND I ACT.
AND I THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT IN
A PRESIDENT.
EVERYTHING ELSE JUST MELTS AWAY.
SECONDLY, I'M SOMEONE THAT CAN
WIN AND BEAT DONALD TRUMP.
I HAVE WON EVERY PLACE, EVERY
RACE AND EVERY TIME.
I HAVE WON IN THE REDDEST
DISTRICTS ONES THAT DONALD TRUMP
WON BY OVER 20 POINTS.
I CAN WIN IN STATES LIKE
WISCONSIN AND IOWA AND IN
MICHIGAN.
AND FINALLY, YEAH, I AM NOT THE
ESTABLISHMENT PARTY CANDIDATE.
I'VE GOT RESPECT BUT I'M IN THE
THAT PERSON.
I AM THE ONE THAT DOESN'T HAVE A
POLITICAL MACHINE THAT DOESN'T
COME FROM MONEY.
ABOUT AND I DON'T MAKE ALL THE
PROMISES EVERYONE UP HERE MAKES.
I CAN PROMISE YOU THIS.
I'M GOVERNING WITH INTEGRITY.
I'M GOING TO HAVE YOUR BACK.
AND I'M GOING TO OREGON FOR YOU.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR.
>> 50 YEARS AGO THIS MONTH MY
FAMILY MOVED INTO THE TOWN I
GREW UP BECAUSE AFTER BEING
DEFIED A HOUSE BECAUSE OF THE
COLOR OF THEIR SKIN WAS IT WAS
WHITE ACTIVISTS THAT STOOD UP
AND FOUGHT FOR THEM.
PEACE THAT'S THE BEST WHO WE ARE
AT MARK WHEN I GOT OUT OF LAW
SCHOOL I FIGHT AS A TENANT
LAWYER TO FIGHT FOR OTHER
PEOPLE'S RIGHTS.
I'VE TAKEN ON BULLIES AND WE
HAVE ONE.
WE WIN NOT BY BECOMING THE WORST
OF WHO WE ARE BUT THE BEST.
DONALD TRUMP WANTS US TO FIGHT
HIM ON HIS TURF AND HIS TERMS.
I WILL BEAT HIM BY CALLING THIS
COUNTRY TO A SENSE OF COMMON
PURPOSE AGAIN.
THIS IS A REFERENDUM ON HIM AND
GETTING RID OF HIM BUT ALSO A
REFRPD UP ON US, WHO WE ARE AND
WHO WE MUST BE TO EACH OTHER.
IT'S TIME WE WIN THIS ELECTION
AND THE WAY I WILL GOVERN IS BY
SHOWING THE BEST OF WHO WE ARE
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THIS COUNTRY
NEEDS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE 45
SECONDS.
>> MY DAUGHTER MOLLIE TURNED 11
THIS WEEK.
I'M ON THIS STAGE FOR HER FOR
CHILDREN ACROSS THIS COUNTRY.
INCLUDING SOME HER SAME AGE
SEPARATED FROM HER PARENTS AND
SLEEPING ON CONCRETE FLOORS
UNDER ALUMINUM BLANKETS TONIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE THERE FOR THEM
WE'RE GOING TO CONFRONT THE
CHALLENGES WE FACE.
WE CAN'T RETURN FOR THE SAME OLD
APPROACH.
WE'RE GOING TO NEED A NEW KIND
OF POLITICS, ONE DIRECTED BY THE
URGENCY OF THE NEXT GENERATION.
THOSE CLIMATE ACTIVISTS FIGHTING
NOT JUST FOR THEIR FUTURE BUT
FOR EVERYONE.
THE STUDENTS MARCHING NOT JUST
FOR THEIR LIVES BUT ALL OF OURS.
WE NEED A MOVEMENT LIKE THE ONE
WE LED IN TEXAS, RENEWING OUR
DEMOCRACY BY BRINGING EVERYONE
IN AND WRITING NOBODY OFF.
THAT'S HOW WE BEAT DONALD TRUMP.
THAT'S HOW WE BRING IN GREAT
COUNTRY TOGETHER AGAIN.
JOIN US.
THIS IS OUR MOMENT.
AND THE GENERATIONS THAT FOLLOW
ARE COUNTING ON US TO MEET IT.
>> THANK YOU, CONGRESSMAN.
>> SENATOR WARREN YOU HAVE 45
SECONDS FOR THIS FINAL, FINAL
STATEMENT OF THE EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
IT'S A GREAT HONOR TO BE HERE.
NEVER IN A MILLION YEARS DID I
THINK I WOULD STAND ON A STAGE
LIKE THIS.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED IN
OKLAHOMA.
I HAVE THREE OLDER BROTHERS.
THEY ALL JOIN THE MILITARY.
I HAD A DREAM GROWING UP.
AND MY DREAM WAS TO BE A PUBLIC
SCHOOL TEACHER.
BY THE TIME I GRADUATED FROM
HIGH SCHOOL MY FAMILY MY FAMILY
DIDN'T HAVE THE MONEY FOR
COLLEGE APPLICATION MUCH LESS A
CHANCE FOR ME TO GO TO COLLEGE.
BUT I GOT MY CHANCE.
IT WAS A $50 A SEMESTER COMMUTER
COLLEGE.
THAT WAS A LITTLE SLICE OF
GOVERNMENT THAT CREATED SOME
OPPORTUNITY FOR A GIRL.
AND IT OPENED MY LIFE.
I AM IN THIS FIGHT BECAUSE I
BELIEVE THAT WE CAN MAKE OUR
GOVERNMENT.
WE CAN MAKE OUR ECONOMY.
WE CAN MAKE OUR COUNTRY WORK.
NOT JUST FOR THOSE AT THE TOP.
WE CAN MAKE IT WORK FOR
EVERYONE.
AND I PROMISE YOU THIS.
I WILL FIGHT FOR YOU AS HARD AS
I FIGHT FOR MY OWN FAMILY.
>> THAT WILL WILL DO IT FOR
NIGHT ONE OF THIS TWO-NIGHT
EVENT.
AND GUESS WHAT, WE HAVE TEN MORE
CANDIDATES TOMORROW NIGHT.
>> WE CERTAINLY HOPE YOU JOIN US
THEN.
BUT FOR NOW THAT CONCLUDES OUR
COVERAGE OF THIS FIRST
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE FROM MIAMI.
FOR US JOSE, CHUCK AND RACHEL,
I'M LESTER HOLTE.
GOOD NIGHT, EVERYONE.
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
.
>>> GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
I'M MORGAN RADFORD AND WELCOME
TO SPECIAL POST DEBATE COVERAGE
OF THE FIRST DEMOCRATIC DEBATE
OF THE TO 20 ELECTION CYCLE
RIGHT HERE ON NBC NEWS NOW.
WE JUST WRAPPED UP NIGHT ONE OF
THE FIRST DEMOCRATIC DEBATE AND
WE'VE GOT A LOT TO TALK ABOUT.
THE TOP FOUR FRONT RUNNERS GOING
INTO TONIGHT WIN THE TOP FIVE
FOR THE MOST AIR TIME.
ELIZABETH WARREN, CORY BOOKER,
BETO O'ROURKE.
ALSO IN THE TOP FIVE WAS JULIAN
CASTRO.
NOT SURPRISINGLY, IT WAS A NIGHT
THAT WAS ALL ABOUT THE ISSUES.
WE HEARD FROM CANDIDATES ON
THINGS LIKE IMMIGRATION, FREE
COLLEGE, HEALTH CARE, THE IRAN
DEAL, ABORTION, GUN VIOLENCE,
THE SUPREME COURT, CLIMATE
CHANGE, POLICE VIOLENCE AND OF
COURSE LGBTQ RIGHTS.
SO TO BREAK DOWN WHAT WE SAW
THIS EVENING WE'RE BRINGING OUR
PANEL BACK IN.
WE HAVE REPUBLICAN POLITICAL
CONSULTANT SIR MICHAEL
SINGLETON.
POLITICAL REPORTER ALEX THOMPSON
AND MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST
SELENA MAXWELL.
THEY'RE HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
HIGHLIGHTS.
ALEX, DID ANYTHING SURPRISE YOU?
>> PROBABLY THE MOST SURPRISING
NIGHT, HIS ABILITY TO HAVE HIS
FINGER ON THE PULSE OF CERTAIN
POLICY ISSUES.
I THINK HE REALLY CAUGHT BETO
O'ROURKE OFF GUARD BY KIND OF
HITTING HIM FROM THE LEFT ON
THIS QUESTION ABOUT IS IT A
CRIME TO CROSS THE BORDER.
CLEARLY SECRETARY CASTRO HAD
DONE PREP WORK.
HE KNEW BETO'S RECORD
SPECIFICALLY, SO HE ENTERED THE
NIGHT PREPARED TO ATTACK BETO ON
THAT ISSUE, AND BETO DID NOT --
>> HE GOT VERY SPECIFIC ABOUT
REPEALING SECTION 1325 AND
SAYING LET'S NOT JUST FOCUS
EXCLUSIVELY ON ASYLUM.
IT IS ALSO INTERESTING BECAUSE
IF YOU LOOKED AT GOOGLE, THEY
SAID THAT THE GOOGLE SEARCH FOR
JULIAN CASTRO INCREASED 2400%
AND THAT WAS JUST SINCE THE
DEBATE STARTED.
SO, MICHAEL, IS HE THE BREAK
OUT?
>> I SAID IT EARLIER, I'M GLAD I
DID.
I KNEW HE WAS GOING TO BE THE
GUY.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE SPECIFICS,
HE WAS ABLE TO DO WHAT I WOULD
ARGUE ELIZABETH WARREN DIDN'T
EVEN DO AS EFFECTIVELY AS I
THOUGHT SHE COULD.
TALK ABOUT VERY DETAILED
POLICIES IN A WAY WHERE THE
AVERAGE PERSON WATCHING, I DID
THIS.
THIS MAKES SENSE AND I KNOW HOW
IT'S GOING TO IMPACT ME.
THIS IS A GREAT NIGHT FOR HIM.
>> IT WAS INTERESTING BECAUSE I
THINK WE SAW ELIZABETH WARREN
BROUGHT THE PASSION, BUT CASTRO
SEEMED TO REALLY BRING THE
POLICY.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN, IT'S TOUGH IN 60 SECONDS
TO DO BOTH, RIGHT?
AND I THINK THAT HE PREPARED FOR
EXACTLY THAT.
I ALSO THINK HE HAD THE BENEFIT
OF PEOPLE NOT NECESSARILY
KNOWING THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
HIM AND HIS BROTHER.
>> JOAQUIN.
>> IT'S FUNNY, BUT PEOPLE WERE
LIKE THIS IS JULIAN AND THIS IS
WHAT HE'S ABOUT.
>> WHEN YOU'RE NEW TO PEOPLE, I
THINK THAT IT'S ACTUALLY YOU
HAVE LOW EXPECTATIONS AND YOU
CAN SURPASS THEM, WHEREAS
ELIZABETH WARREN WENT IN WITH
SKY HIGH EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE
SHE'S THE ONE WHO HAS BEEN
RISING TO THE DOUBLE DIGITS INTO
THE TOP TIER.
SO I THINK THEY HAD DIFFERENT
CHALLENGES, AND I THINK THAT HER
PASSION DID COME THROUGH.
>> SHE DIDN'T NECESSARILY NEED
SUBSTANCE IN THIS DEBATE.
SHE HAS THAT AS HER TAG LINE.
I HAVE A POINT FOR THAT.
>> I DON'T THINK SHE MOVED THE
NEEDLE AS MUCH AS SHE COULD
HAVE.
>> COULD HAVE.
MAYBE NOT SHOULD HAVE --
>> LOOK, LET'S BE HONEST.
HER GOAL AND OBJECTIVE SHOULD BE
TO BE ON THE SAME DEBATE STAGE
AS BERNIE SANDERS AND JOE BIDEN,
MAYOR PETE, AS KAMALA HARRIS.
I'M NOT NECESSARILY SURE THAT
WE'LL SEE A FIVE OR TEN-POINT
BUMP FROM HER PERFORMANCE
TONIGHT.
>> WHY, WHAT DID SHE NOT DO?
>> LOOK, I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
WERE ANTICIPATING A LOT OF
ENERGY COMING FROM ELIZABETH
WARREN.
I WOULD ARGUE YOU SAW MORE
ENERGY COMING FROM MAYOR BILL De
BLASIO THAN YOU DID FROM
ELIZABETH WARREN.
EXACTLY, HE REALLY DID.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE SORT OF
SAW HER, SHE'S THE FRONT RUNNER
ON THAT STAGE TONIGHT AMONG ALL
THOSE COMPETITORS AND SHE
DIDN'T, IN MY OPINION, QUITE
MEET THE MARK AS FAR AS
EXPECTATIONS THAT I HAD SET FOR
HER FROM WHAT WE'VE SEEN SO FAR
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL WEEKS.
>> WHY IS THAT?
>> THEY WERE HIGH EXPECTATIONS.
SHE'S IN THE CENTER OF THE
STAGE.
ALL THE FIRE IS AIMED AT HER.
SO ALL SHE HAS -- I FEEL LIKE
ALL SHE HAD TO DO TONIGHT WAS
NOT MESS UP.
WHEN YOU HAVE MOMENTUM IN THIS
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, THAT CAN
CONTINUE AS LONG AS YOU DON'T
HAVE A MAJOR SCREW UP OR GAFF.
>> ALEX, I WANT TO GET YOUR
PERSPECTIVE ON THIS.
WHEN I POSTED THE QUESTION TO
TWITTER ABOUT WHAT THEY WANTED
TO HEAR, RAYMOND D. SAID DID ANY
CANDIDATE MISS THEIR OPPORTUNITY
TO STAND OUT?
>> I THINK AMY KLOBUCHAR DID
FAIL.
I THINK GOVERNOR INSLEE FAILED.
I THINK THEY BOTH HAD THEIR
LITTLE MOMENTS.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO PUSH
IT FORWARD, BUT THEY ARE IN THIS
SORT OF TIER WHERE THEY MIGHT
NOT EVEN QUALIFY FOR THE NEXT
ROUND OF DEBATES IN SEPTEMBER,
OCTOBER.
THEY NEED MOMENTS IN ORDER TO
CATCH FIRE IN ORDER TO GET
THROUGH THE 130,000 MARK.
I THINK AMY KLOBUCHAR COULD HAVE
A MOMENT WHERE SHE SAID MAN
SCREENING.
>> SHE SAID WOMEN HAVE BEEN ON
THE FRONT LINES A VERY LONG
TIME.
>> SHE ACTED LIKE SHE WAS THE
ONLY ONE.
>> WHO ARE YOU TALKING TO?
>> IT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE MY
QUESTION WAS WHAT ABOUT THE
IDENTITY TONIGHT?
I THINK WE ALL HAD THE MOMENT
WHENWAY SAW BETO CAME OUT AND HE
WAS SPEAKING SPANISH.
CORY BOOKER SPOKE SPANISH.
IT WASN'T THAT BECAUSE BEYOND
THE SPANISH, WE ALSO SAW THAT
CORY BOOKER SPOKE EXPLICITLY
ABOUT HIS CONNECTION TO THE
BLACK COMMUNITY.
De BLASIO SAID, BY THE WAY, I
HAVE A BLACKSON WHO IS NAMED
DANTE.
HE MADE A CONNECTION.
DID IT WORK?
DID THEY REACH INTO THEIR
IDENTITY?
>> IT WAS LIKE PANDERING 102.
>> OH, YOU DID NOT LIKE THAT?
>> NO, I DID NOT.
WHEN JULIAN DID IT HE ALSO
TALKED ABOUT AFRICAN AMERICANS.
I NOTICED THAT.
THE SAME THING ABOUT CORY
BOOKER.
EXACTLY.
DID YOU NOT SEE THE EXPRESSIONS
ONCORY BOOKER --
>> THEY CAME IN --
>> RIGHT.
AND ELIZABETH WARREN.
>> THEY WERE LOOKING AT HIM LIKE
WHAT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THE REASON WHY IS HE
JUMPED RIGHT TO IT, RIGHT?
IT'S NOT LIKE HE WAS, HI, I'M
BETO.
HE JUMPED RIGHT TO THE SPANISH.
PEOPLE WHO KNOW SPANISH ON
TWITTER ARE LIKE, YOU DIDN'T
EVEN ANSWER THE QUESTION IN
SPANISH.
SO --
>> I'M GOING TO ASK -- DO THAT
AGAIN.
>> I FELT HE DID.
THAT WAS THE MOMENT WHEN MY
PHONE STARTED BLOWING UP.
MY MOM IS LIKE, OH, WOW -- YEAH,
THIS IS WILD.
FOR ME I WAS TRYING TO THINK
WHEN HAVE WE SEEN SOMEONE DO IT
TO THAT DEGREE OF FLUIDITY?
I FELT IT WAS A MARK OF
INCLUSION.
>> IT WAS PRETTY GOOD, SPANISH
HE'S FLUENT.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT IT WAS A
GOOD THING THAT HE WAS DOING
THAT AND THAT THEY WERE PLAYING
OFF OF THE FACT THAT HE WAS
FLUENT IN SPANISH.
I DON'T THINK NECESSARILY
PLAYING IDENTIT POLITICS IN A
WAY THAT CAN APPEAR LIKE
PANDERING IS A GOOD THING.
I THINK THERE IS A DIFFERENT WAY
TO DO IT IT THAT IS COMPLETELY
AUTHENTIC.
YOU CAN SHOW UP AND SAY I'M A
WHITE GUY NAMED ROBERTO ROURKE
AND THEN YOU CAN TALK ABOUT THE
ISSUES THAT IMPACT COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR.
BUT YOU DON'T -- I THINK, YOU
KNOW, HE BENEFITS IN THE FACT
HIS NICKNAME IS BETO.
HE BENEFITS FROM THE FACT THAT
SOME PEOPLE LOOKING AT HIM MAY
NOT KNOW HE'S A WHITE MAN NAMED
ROBERT.
>> TO BE CLEAR, IN SPANISH BETO
IS THE SHORT FOR ROBERTO.
>> HE GREW UP IN TEXAS, KNOWN AS
BETO.
HE AUTHENTICALLY HAS AN
EXPERIENCE AND CONNECTION WITH
THAT COMMUNITY.
BUT, ALEX, WHAT ABOUT WHEN YOU
HEARD De BLASIO TALK ABOUT HIS
SON, WHAT DID YOU THINK?
>> I THINK IT WAS ONE OF THE
BEST MOMENTS OF THE DEBATE.
HE ACTUALLY WAS MAYBE NOT AS BIG
OF A STAR AS JULIAN, BUT
CERTAINLY A BREAK-OUT STAR OF
THIS DEBATE.
I THINK HE REALLY RESONATED.
WHETHER OR NOT IT WAS ON PRIVATE
INSURANCE OR IDENTITY OR TALKING
ABOUT HIS FATHER'S SUICIDE,
WHICH I THINK, YOU KNOW, HE HAD
A FEW GOOD MOMENTS THAT I THINK
REALLY WOULD RESONATE WITH ALL
THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
DEMOCRATIC BASE.
>> MICHAEL, LET ME GET YOUR
PERSPECTIVE, TOO, ONCORY BOOKER
BECAUSE CORY BOOKER SPOKE VERY
CANDIDLY ABOUT BEING
AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
FREQUENTLY SAID, MY COMMUNITY,
MY COMMUNITY.
DO YOU THINK HE MADE PEOPLE FEEL
COMFORTABLE THAT HE COULD BE
EVERYONE'S PRESIDENT?
>> I THINK SO.
FROM CORY BOOKER'S PERSPECTIVE,
HE MENTIONED WHEN HIS PARENTS
MOVED INTO A CERTAIN
NEIGHBORHOOD, IT WAS WHITE
ACTIVISTS THAT CAME TO HIS
PARENTS' DEFENSE, IF YOU WILL.
I THINK HE DID TRY TO BRING TWO
DIFFERENT COALITIONS TOGETHER.
TO BE HONEST, I WAS DISAPPOINTED
THAT MORE CANDIDATES DID NOT
SPEAK MORE DIRECTLY ON GUN
VIOLENCE.
WHEN THEY DID, THEY SPOKE ABOUT
ASSAULT RIFLES, BUT WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, MOST GUN VIOLENCE IS
BY PISTOL.
I WAS ALSO DISAPPOINTED THAT
NONE OF THE CANDIDATES SEEMED TO
BE PREPARED TO ANSWER THE
QUESTION DIRECTLY ABOUT HOW
WOULD YOU DEAL WITH MITCH
McCONNELL CONTROLLING THE
SENATE?
THESE ARE SOME GREAT IDEAS --
>> ELIZABETH WARREN DID ADDRESS
IT.
>> I THINK SHE TALKED AROUND IT.
SHE DIDN'T DIRECTLY ANSWER IT.
THESE ARE GREAT IDEAS, BUT THE
REALITY IS IF YOU GET ELECTED
NEXT YEAR, MITCH McCONNELL IS
STILL THE MAJORITY LEADER.
NONE OF THESE THINGS ARE GOING
TO COME TO FRUITION.
>> AFTER --
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THERE'S A LOT MORE TO TALK
ABOUT HERE.
AND WE HEARD FROM THE CANDIDATES
ABOUT WHERE THEY STAND ON
IMMIGRATION, COLLEGE, HEALTH
CARE, ABORTION AND MANY OTHER
ISSUES.
TAKE A LOOK AT SOME OF THESE
HIGHLIGHTS.
>> A NEW DEMOCRACY THAT IS
REVIVED BECAUSE WE RETURN POWER
TO THE PEOPLE, NO
GERRYMANDERING.
>> WHAT'S THE NEW THING?
IT'S COURAGE.
COURAGE IN WASHINGTON TO TAKE ON
THE GIANTS.
>> I WOULD DO SEVERAL THINGS,
STARTING WITH SOMETHING WE
SHOULD HAVE DONE A LONG TIME AGO
WHICH IS TO PASS THE EQUAL
RIGHTS AMENDMENT.
WHO HERE WOULD ABOLISH THEIR
PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE IN
FAVOR OF A GOVERNMENT-RUN PLAN,
A SHOW OF HANDS?
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL, IT SHOULD NOT BE AN OPTION
IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FOR ANY INSURANCE COMPANY TO
DENY WOMEN COVERAGE FOR THEIR
EXERCISE OF THEIR RIGHT OF
CHOICE.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THERE ARE
THREE WOMEN UP HERE WHO HAVE
FOUGHT PRETTY HARD FOR WOMEN'S
RIGHTS.
>> ALL THE AMERICAN CITIZENS OUT
THERE WHO FEEL YOU'RE FALLING
BEHIND, THE AMERICAN DREAM IS
NOT WORKING FOR YOU, THE
IMMIGRANTS DIDN'T DO THAT TO
YOU.
>> I DON'T THINK WE CONDUCT ONE
POLICY IN OUR BATH ROBE AT 5:00
IN THE MORNING.
>> IF YOU NEED A LICENSE TO
DRIVE A CAR, YOU SHOULD NEED A
LICENSE TO BUY AND OWN A
FIREARM.
>> WE HAVE TO TREAT IT LIKE A
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY THAT WE
BRING TO BEAR AND IT MEANS
MAKING REAL CHAIR IN THIS
COUNTRY WHETHER IT'S POLITICALLY
POPULAR OR NOT.
>> MY FIRST VISIT, AFTER I
ANNOUNCED MY CANDIDACY WASN'T TO
IOWA OR NEW HAMPSHIRE, IT WAS TO
SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.
[ APPLAUSE ]
BECAUSE PEOPLE SHOULD KNOW IF
I'M ELECTED PRESIDENT, EVERYBODY
WILL COUNT.
>> I SERVE WITH LGBTQ SERVICE
MEMBERS, BOTH IN TRAINING AND
DEPLOYED DOWN RANGE.
I KNOW THAT THEY WOULD GIVE
THEIR LIFE FOR ME AND I WOULD
GIVE MY LIFE FOR THEM.
>> WE NEED TO HAVE A PRESIDENT
THAT WILL FIGHT TO PROTECT LGBTQ
AMERICANS EVERY SINGLE DAY.
>> ON JANUARY 20th, 2021, WE'LL
SAY ADIOS TO DONALD TRUMP.
>> THE MAYOR OF FLORIDA IS ALSO
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT, BUT DID
NOT QUALIFY TO BE ON THE DEBATE
STAGE TONIGHT WITH THE OTHER
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES HOPING TO
CHALLENGE PRESIDENT TRUMP IN
2020.
HE JOINS US NOW LIVE FROM
MIRAMAR, FLORIDA TO SHARE HIS
PERSPECTIVE.
MAYOR, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
BEING WITH US THIS EVENING AND
SHARING YOUR TIME WITH US.
WHAT WAS YOUR INITIAL REACTION
TO TONIGHT'S DEBATE?
DID ANYTHING SURPRISE YOU?
>> WELL, NO.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE BEEN OUT ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL FOR SOMETIME NOW.
JUST HEARING SOME OF THE OTHER
CANDIDATES IS PRETTY CONSISTENT
WITH SOME OF THE MESSAGES WE'VE
HEARD ON THE CAMPAIGN.
>> AND SPEAKING OF THAT, YOU
SAID YOU'VE BEEN CAMPAIGNING FOR
SOME MONTHS NOW.
WHEN YOU'VE BEEN OUT THERE,
YOU'VE BEEN TALKING SPECIFICALLY
TO GUN CONTROL AND TALKING ABOUT
THINGS LIKE ELIMINATING THE
STUDENT DEBT.
DID YOU AGREE WITH THE
CANDIDATES' POINTS ON THOSE
ISSUES?
WAS THERE ANY ONE YOU FELT
REALLY WAS ALIGNED WITH WHAT
YOUR VISION IS?
>> WELL, I THINK MY MESSAGE IS
MORE UNIQUE.
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER TO
TALK MORE ABOUT THE STUDENT LOAN
DEBT IN DETAIL.
GUN VIOLENCE MENTIONED EARLIER,
WE HIGHLIGHT MASS SHOOTING, BUT
EVERY DAY THERE IS NEIGHBORHOOD
GUN VIOLENCE THAT TAKES PLACE
AND WE NEED MORE SOLUTIONS
DEALING WITH JUST THE PLIGHT OF
WHAT DRIVES THOSE TYPE OF
DECISIONS TO KILL ACROSS THIS
COUNTRY.
I THINK AS CANDIDATES, WE HAVE
TO COME SPECIFICALLY TO DEAL
WITH THESE EVERYDAY ISSUES.
>> SO WHAT IS YOUR SPECIFIC
SOLUTION TO THE GUN VIOLENCE
ISSUE?
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING IN
TERMS OF EVERYDAY VIOLENCE, YOU
HAVE TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS
OF EVERYDAY AMERICANS.
WHERE THEY HAVE HOPE, THEY HAVE
TUBTS FOR PROSPERITY SO THEY'RE
NOT TURNING TO A LIFE OF CRIME
THAT LEADS TO VIOLENCE.
AND I THINK WHEN WE IMPROVE THE
DAILY LIVES OF AMERICANS,
ESPECIALLY IN THE URBAN
COMMUNITIES AND AREAS WHERE WE
SEE A LOT OF GUN VIOLENCE, WE'LL
SEE A REDUCTION.
IT'S MORE THAN JUST TAKING GUNS
OFF THE STREET.
IT'S REALLY TAKING AND GIVING
THEM EDUCATION, GIVING THEM
OPPORTUNITIES, AND GIVING THEM
AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE THEY CAN
SUCCEED.
>> AND IS THERE ANYTHING BESIDES
THE GUN CONTROL ISSUE THAT YOU
SPECIFICALLY FEEL LIKE YOU COULD
HAVE BROUGHT TO THE DEBATE STAGE
TONIGHT IF GIVEN THE
OPPORTUNITY?
>> WELL, ONE THING -- HERE'S A
COUPLE THINGS.
FIRST, I WOULD HAVE DEALT MORE
IN TERMS OF THE STUDENT LOAN
CRISIS, BEING THE FIRST
CANDIDATE TO MAKE THAT PROPOSAL
TO FORGIVE THE $1.5 TRILLION, I
WOULD HAVE GONE INTO THOSE
ISSUES, MAKE NOTES HOW OTHER
CANDIDATES HAVE ALSO FOLLOWED
THAT LEAD AND HOW IT WOULD
BENEFIT INDIVIDUALS WHO GRADUATE
FROM COLLEGE WITH THE CRIPPLING
DEBT.
THE OTHER THING IS ABOUT
WINNING.
WE HAVE TO ATTRACT AND MOTIVATE
THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO WOULD VOTE
FOR DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE WHO FEEL
DISENCHANTED.
IN ALL CANDOR, IF WE'RE NOT
SPEAKING TO THOSE INDIVIDUALS
THAT FEEL LIKE WE HAVE SOLUTIONS
FOR THEM, WE WILL IMPROVE THEIR
LIVES, THAT THE SYSTEM CAN BE
TILTED BACK IN THEIR FAVOR
INSTEAD OF, YOU KNOW, RICH
CORPORATIONS AND THE RICH EST OF
AMERICANS.
LIKE MY STATE OF FLORIDA.
ELECTIONS ARE DETERMINED BY 20,
30,000 VOTES AND THOSE ARE
INDIVIDUALS THAT BASICALLY JUST
STAY HOME.
WHEN YOU HAVE 100,000 REGISTERED
VOTERS THAT JUST STAY HOME
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T MOTIVATED,
IN FLORIDA THAT IS GOING TO BE
CRITICAL AND WE HAVE TO SPEAK TO
THOSE VOTERS.
>> SO, MAYOR, I WANT TO ASK YOU
A QUESTION.
I HAVE TO BE HONEST, WHEN I WAS
WALKING IN TO DO THIS SHOW,
SOMEONE STOPPED ME IN THE
HALLWAY.
MORGAN, AT THE END OF THE DAY
THERE CAN ONLY BE ONE.
THEY ASKED ME, IF I COULD SPEAK
TO THE CANDIDATES, IS THERE
ANYONE THEY WOULD SUPPORT IF
THEIR ANSWER WAS NOT -- IS THERE
ANYONE BASED ON THEIR
PERFORMANCE YOU THINK YOU COULD
GET BEHIND?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE'S A LOT
MORE DEBATES AND DISCUSSIONS
THAT NEEDS TO TAKE PLACE.
I HAVE A LOT OF RESPECT FOR A
LOT OF MY FELLOW DEMOCRATS THAT
ARE SEEKING THE NOMINATION AND
ANY OF US WOULD BE BETTER THAN
DONALD TRUMP.
SO I THINK I'LL BE ABLE TO BEAT
THAT FROM THE QUESTIONS OF THE
MODERATOR AFTER QUALIFYING FOR
ONE OF THE DEBATES ANSWERING
THAT QUESTION.
>> MAYOR FROM MIRAMAR, FLORIDA,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING US
THIS EVENING.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> OUR PLEASURE.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A SHORT
BREAK, BUT STICK WITH US.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
>>> THE GLOVES CAME OFF TONIGHT
AS TEN OF THE 25 DEMOCRATIC
CONTENDERS TOOK TO THE STAGE
DEBATING TOPICS LIKE HEALTH
CARE, IMMIGRATION, AND GUNS.
BUT HOW MANY OF THEIR CLAIMS
WERE TRUE?
NBC IN MIAMI HAS BEEN FACT
CHECKING.
WHAT DID YOU FIND?
>> WE WERE TYPING AWAY.
EVERY CLAIM, EVERY NUMBER THAT
CAME ACROSS OUR DESK.
THREE THINGS I WANTED TO BRING
UP, WE SAW JULIAN CASTRO TALKED
ABOUT FATHER AND DAUGHTER,
TRUMP'S IMMIGRATION POLICIES.
IT IS TRUE, THE PRESIDENT HAS
INSTITUTED WITH HIS
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES THAT
SLOW THE NUMBER OF ASYLUM
SEEKERS THAT CAN ENTER THE
COUNTRY EACH DAY AND CLAIM
ASYLUM.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
ACCORDING TO THE REPORTING IN
MEXICO IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
MOTIVATED THIS FATHER TO RISK
HIS LIFE AND CROSS THE RIO GRAND
WHEN HE WAS TRAGICALLY KILLED.
>>> A COUPLE OTHER THINGS THAT
CAME ACROSS MY DESK THAT WERE
INTERESTING.
AMY KLOBUCHAR BROUGHT UP THE
IMMIGRATION BILL.
SOMETHING WE HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT
YEARS AGO AND SAID IT LOWERS THE
DEBT.
SHE'S CLOSE.
IT LOWERS THE DEFICIT.
IT DOES LOWER THE DEBT, BUT
DOESN'T TICK DOWN THE DEBT THE
SAME WAY.
THE DEBT RISES AT A SLOWER RATE
THAN IT WOULD BEFORE.
THE BIG FALSEHOOD OF THE NIGHT,
THE BIG ONE THAT I SAW WAS THE
STAND OUT THING WITH FACT
CHECKING WAS BETO O'ROURKE
SAYING THAT PHARMA, THE MAKERS
OF THE OXYCONTIN HAD TOTAL
IMPUNITY AND ACTED WITHOUT ANY
JUSTICE FOR THEIR ROLE IN THE
NARCOTICS AND OPIOID CRISIS.
THE COMPANY HAS PAID HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
SETTLEMENTS.
THEY'RE IN COURT CONSTANTLY
FIGHTING OFF THESE CLAIMS.
HE SAID THEY NEVER SPENT A NIGHT
IN JAIL.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THE OVERALL CLAIM OF IMPUNITY
NOT EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> WOW, THAT'S A LOT.
BIG PHARMA, THE DEFICIT VERSUS
DEBT, AS WELL AS IMMIGRATION.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US
THIS EVENING.
AS JANE MENTIONED, IMMIGRATION
WAS IN FOCUS TONIGHT, A VERY HOT
TOPIC, AND IT WAS THE SUBJECT OF
A HEATED DEBATE ON STAGE WE SAW
BETWEEN BETO O'ROURKE AND JULIAN
CASTRO.
THEY CLASHED OVER THEIR
IMMIGRATION STANCES AND OTHER
CANDIDATES WEIGHED IN WITH THEIR
OWN OPINIONS.
HERE ARE THE HIGHLIGHTS.
>> WATCHING THAT IMAGE OF THE
FATHER AND DAUGHTER IS HEART
BREAKING.
IT SHOULD ALSO PURSE US ALL OFF.
IF I WAS PRESIDENT TODAY, I
WOULD SIGN AN EXECUTIVE ORDER
THAT WOULD GET RID OF TRUMP,
ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY, THE
REMAIN IN MEXICO POLICY, AND THE
METERING POLICY.
THIS METERING POLICY IS
BASICALLY WHAT PROMPTED THE
FATHER AND DAUGHTER TO MAKE THAT
RISKY SWIM ACROSS THE RIVER.
FROM DAY ONE, I WILL MAKE SURE
THAT, NUMBER ONE, WE END THE
I.C.E. POLICIES AND THE CUSTOMS
AND BORDER POLICIES THAT ARE
VIOLATING HUMAN RIGHTS.
I WILL MAKE SURE THAT WE
REINSTATE DACA, THAT WE
REINSTATE PATHWAYS TO
CITIZENSHIP FOR DACA RECIPIENTS
AND TO MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE
THAT ARE HERE ON TEMPORARY
STATUS CAN STAY AND REMAIN HERE.
FOR ALL THE AMERICAN CITIZENS
OUT THERE THAT FEEL YOU'RE
FALLING BEHIND, THE AMERICAN
DREAM IS NOT WORKING FOR YOU,
THE IMMIGRANTS DIDN'T DO THAT TO
YOU.
THE BIG CORPORATIONS DID THAT TO
>>> SOME OF US ON THIS STAGE
HAVE CALLED TO END THAT SECTION,
TO TERMINATE IT.
SOME LIKE CONGRESSMAN O'ROURKE
HAVE NOT.
AND I WANT TO CHALLENGE ALL OF
THE CANDIDATES TO DO THAT.
>> THE NUMBER OF CONGRESS, I
HELPED TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION
THAT WOULD ENSURE WE DON'T
CRIMINALIZE THOSE SEEKING ASYLUM
AND REFUGE --
>> I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT --
>> WE HAVE A SITUATION RIGHT NOW
WHERE WE NEED WORKERS IN OUR
FIELDS AND IN OUR FACTORIES.
WE NEED THEM TO START SMALL
BUSINESSES.
WE NEED THEIR IDEAS.
AND THIS PRESIDENT HAS LITERALLY
GONE BACKWARDS AT A TIME WHERE
OUR ECONOMY NEEDS IMMIGRANTS.
SO MY PROPOSAL IS TO LOOK AT
THAT 2013 BILL THAT PASSED THE
SENATE WITH REPUBLICAN SUPPORT,
TO UPGRADE THAT BILL, TO MAKE IT
AS GOOD AS POSSIBLE, AND GET IT
DONE.
>> IF YOU GO TO GUANTANAMO BAY,
THERE ARE TERRORISTS THAT ARE
HELD THAT GET BETTER HEALTH CARE
THAN THOSE KIDS THAT HAVE TRIED
TO CROSS THE BORDER IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THAT NEEDS TO STOP.
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT SHOULD
IMMEDIATELY ASK DOCTORS AND
NURSES TO GO IMMEDIATELY DOWN TO
THE BORDER AND START TAKING CARE
OF THESE KIDS.
WHAT KIND OF COUNTRY ARE WE
RUNNING HERE WHERE WE HAVE A
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WHO IS SO FOCUSED ON HATE AND
FEAR AND DIVISION AND WHAT HAS
HAPPENED NOW, THE END RESULT IS
NOW WE HAVE KIDS LITERALLY
LAYING IN THEIR OWN SNOT WITH
THREE-WEEK-OLD DIAPERS THAT
HAVEN'T BEEN CHANGED.
>> DONALD TRUMP THE OTHER DAY
TRIED TO THREATEN ME.
HE SAID I WAS A THREAT, TO SAY
HE WOULD SEND REFUGEES TO
WASHINGTON STATE IF WE PASSED
THE LAW THAT I PASSED.
AND I TOLD HIM THAT'S NOT A
THREAT AT ALL.
WE WELCOME REFUGEES INTO OUR
STATE.
WE RECOGNIZE DIVERSITY AS A
STRENGTH.
THIS IS HOW WE BUILT AMERICA.
THAT TRADITION IS GOING TO
CONTINUE IF I'M PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
>> SO A LOT THERE TO UNPACK
TONIGHT.
LET'S GO STRAIGHT TO DR. BURNES
WHO IS WATCHING THE DEBATE WITH
A FEW COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM ALL
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
GUYS, I HAVE A QUESTION FOR YOU
JUST TO START.
I THOUGHT THERE WAS A REALLY
POWERFUL MOMENT WHEN AMY
KLOBUCHAR WAS TALKING ABOUT GUN
CONTROL.
SHE SAID JUST LIKE WITH GUN
CONTROL AND WITH GAY RIGHTS,
KIDS LEAD THE WAY.
DO YOU ALL FEEL LIKE THE
STUDENTS -- THE ISSUES YOU CARE
ABOUT MOST WERE ADDRESSED
TONIGHT?
>> I FEEL LIKE MOST OF THE
ISSUES I WANTED TO HEAR ABOUT
WERE ADDRESSED TONIGHT.
MAYBE NOT AS DEEPLY AS I WANTED
TO, BUT I AGREE WITH HER
BECAUSE, YES, IT'S BEEN THE
YOUTH THAT PUT THE ISSUES IN THE
FOREFRONT FOR EVERYONE TO SEE
AND PAY ATTENTION TO.
>> AGAIN, THE POINT I MADE, WE
WERE HAVING OUR OWN DISCUSSION
REALLY, THAT WE ARE THE
GENERATION THAT'S LOOKING FOR
CANDIDATES TO PRESENT THEIR
SPECIFIC POLICIES.
AND, YES, WE DON'T WANT OVERALL
GENERAL POLICIES PASSED FORWARD.
AND I THINK THESE CANDIDATES
WERE ABLE TO DO THAT TONIGHT.
AGAIN, THERE ARE SO MANY OF
THEM, SO THERE IS ONLY SO MUCH
TIME WE WERE ABLE TO LISTEN TO
EACH PERSON, BUT I'M HAPPY TO
SEE THAT, YOU KNOW, CANDIDATES
LIKE WARREN ALL WERE ABLE TO
TAKE THEIR TIME AND LAYOUT
SPECIFIC PLANS THAT THEY HAVE
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE ESPECIALLY.
>> NOW, ONE OF THE MOMENTS THAT
REALLY STOOD OUT TO ME, YOU GUYS
HAD A PRETTY VISCERAL REACTION
TO WAS THE CONVERSATION ABOUT
GUNS.
WARREN CALLED IT A NATIONAL
HEALTH EMERGENCY.
GIVE US YOUR THOUGHTS ON THAT.
WHY IS THAT SOMETHING THAT GOT A
HEATED REACTION FROM YOU ALL?
>> I THINK WE WERE ALL REALLY
IMPRESSED WHEN SHE TALKED
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT LOOKING AT IT
FROM A STANDPOINT OF DOING
RESEARCH AND SEEING THE PROBLEMS
THAT ARE UNDERLYING AND CAUSING
THIS ISSUE IN ORDER TO FIND OUT
THE WAY TO FIX THEM CORRECTLY.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE ALL WANT
TO SEE, SOLUTIONS THAT HAVE
RESEARCH TO BACK THEM UP.
>> I'M ALSO VERY INTERESTED IN
THE PREVENTIVE CARE MODEL THAT
THE DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES SEEM
TO SUGGEST TONIGHT, WE WE LOOK
AT THE ROOT CAUSE OF THE ISSUE,
WHETHER THAT IS GUN CONTROL OR
IMMIGRATION OR HEALTH CARE.
AND WE NOTICE THAT THERE'S A
LACK OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND
THERE IS ALSO A LACK OF CARE
SERVICES IMPLEMENTED THROUGHOUT
ONE'S LIFETIME AND REALLY
TERRIBLE SOCIAL ISSUES.
>> DID YOU GET THE SPECIFICS ON
THE ECONOMIC ISSUES THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT BEFORE IN THE
DEBATE THAT YOU WERE LOOKING
FOR?
>> NO.
MAYOR De BLASIO TALKED
SPECIFICALLY HOW HE WANTS TO
SHIFT THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY BACK
TO BEING THE PARTY OF THE
WORKING CLASS, BUT NEVER REALLY
GAVE ANY SPECIFIC POLICY
SOLUTIONS FOR IT.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS THE
BLUE COLLAR AMERICA IS HAPPENING
IN PENNSYLVANIA, OHIO,
WISCONSIN, KEY STATES THE
PRESIDENT WON IN 2016 BECAUSE
HIS MESSAGE RESONATED WITH THOSE
KINDS OF VOTERS.
BLUE COLLAR AMERICA ISN'T
HAPPENING AS MUCH IN NEW YORK
CITY AS IT IS IN PLACES LIKE
THAT, LIKE WEST VIRGINIA.
I FELT THAT A LOT OF THE
CANDIDATES SORT OF TALKED ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, ELIZABETH WARREN
TALKED ABOUT THE POOR PEOPLE,
BUT I FELT LIKE IT WAS MORE
ABOUT HELPING THEM AS POOR
PEOPLE, NOT GETTING THEM BACK ON
THEIR FEET, FINDING JOBS FOR
THEM AND PUTTING THEM INTO
CAREERS WHERE THEY CAN SUPPORT
THEIR FAMILIES AGAIN.
>> THEY TALKED ABOUT A LOT OF
ISSUES YOU ARE REALLY PASSIONATE
ABOUT BEFORE THE DEBATE.
WHAT WAS MISSED?
DID ENOUGH ATTENTION GET PAID TO
CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM AND ALL
THOSE OTHER THINGS YOU GUYS
TALKED ABOUT?
>> REALLY QUICKLY, I DON'T KNOW
IF YOU MIND --
>> YEAH.
>> GOING BACK TO THE POINT YOU
MADE ABOUT ELIZABETH WARREN.
THAT'S ACTUALLY FUNNY THAT SHE
MADE THAT POINT.
I WAS GOING TO SAY WITH
ELIZABETH WARREN SHE WAS KIND OF
THE ONLY CANDIDATE THAT REALLY
FOCUSED ON RETRAINING THOSE THAT
ARE IN THESE COMMUNITIES WHERE
THESE INDUSTRIES ARE DYING,
ESPECIALLY WITH THE COAL
INDUSTRY AND HOW THAT CONFLICTS
WITH TAKING CARE OF THE
ENVIRONMENT, HOW WE OFTEN HAVE
TO BALANCE THE TWO, FINDING JOBS
OR TAKING CARE OF THE
ENVIRONMENT AND SEEING WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE.
SO ELIZABETH KIND OF TALKED
ABOUT ON THE GREEN DEAL, GREEN
NEW DEAL, HELPING THOSE WHO ARE
WITHIN THE DYING INDUSTRIES,
HELPING THEM TO RETRAIN INTO
NEWER INDUSTRIES, THAT WAY
THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY LEAVING
THEIR JOBS.
THEY ARE SIMPLY LEAVING IT FOR
SOMETHING ELSE THAT WILL BE ABLE
TO HELP NOT ONLY THE ECONOMY,
BUT TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT.
I THINK THAT WAS INTERESTING.
A WHAT WASN'T COVERED ENOUGH AND
WHAT WOULD YOU WANT TO SEE MORE
TOMORROW NIGHT?
>> I'D BE INTERESTED IN HEARING
ABOUT INCLUSIVE ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY POLICIES.
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT UNIVERSAL
CHILD CARE TONIGHT, IT WOULD BE
INTERESTED INTERESTING TO HEAR
HOW IT WILL HELP WORKING WOMEN,
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR THAT ARE
TRYING TO GET BACK ON THEIR
FEET.
IT COULD BENEFIT IMMIGRANT
GROUPS.
AND I'D BE INTERESTED IN HEARING
ABOUT THE RIPPLE EFFECT OF THESE
POLICIES AND HOW WHEN WE HAVE
UNIVERSAL CHILD CARE, IT WILL
BOLSTER OUR SYSTEM AND TRAIN
CHILDREN AND GIVEN ATTENTION
FROM EARLY CHILDHOOD.
>> WHAT WERE SOME EYE ROLL
MOMENTS?
I DEFINITELY SAW SOME FROM YOU
GUYS.
ARIANA, I SAW A LOT FROM YOU
WHEN CORY BOOKER WAS TALKING.
>> A COUPLE LIKE, GOD, YOU GUYS,
WHAT WERE SOME OF THOSE THINGS
THAT YOU WEREN'T SO THRILLED
ABOUT?
>> WHEN BETO SPOKE SPANISH.
SERIOUSLY, I WON'T SAY I DIDN'T
LIKE IT, BUT I THINK IT CAUGHT
PEOPLE OFF GUARD.
YOU COULD SEE SOME OF THE OTHER
CANDIDATES WERE SHAKEN UP BY
THAT.
>> IT WAS TRENDING ALL OVER
TWITTER.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS GREAT FOR
THE FIRST TIME.
BUT AS IT CONTINUED ON WITH THE
MULTIPLE CANDIDATES, I FELT LIKE
ESPECIALLY WITH BOOKER IT FELT
LIKE PANDERING FOR SOME REASON,
IT WASN'T GENUINE COMING FROM
HIM.
ANY MOMENT IT DIDN'T FEEL AS
GENUINE COMING FROM THE
CANDIDATES WHEN THEY TALKED
ABOUT HIS NEIGHBORHOOD
REPEATEDLY IN THE SAME FASHION.
I FELT LIKE THAT WAS AN EYE ROLL
MOMENT FOR ME.
>> QUICK LIGHTNING ROUND, WHO
WON TONIGHT IN YOUR EYES?
WE'LL START WITH VALENTINA.
>> JULIAN CASTRO FOR TALKING
POLICY.
>> JULIAN CASTRO.
>> CASTRO FOR THE SAME REASONS.
>> SECRETARY CASTRO.
>> I THINK WARREN ACTUALLY DID A
GOOD JOB, BUT I DO AGREE, I
THOUGHT CASTRO STOOD OUT AS ONE
OF THE LESSER-KNOWN CANDIDATES.
>> I WAS SURPRISED BY MAYOR De
BLASIO'S IDEAS AND HIS
MESSAGING.
>> WOW, SO CASTRO KIND OF STOLE
THE SPOTLIGHT AND De BLASIO CAME
OUT.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU GUYS SO MUCH FOR
STICKING WITH ME AND WATCHING
THIS THING WITH US.
BACK TO YOU.
>> VALENTINA, CHRIS, ARIANA,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I HOPE TO SEE YOU ALL ON THE
DEBATE STAGE IN 2024.
YOU GUYS TAKE CARE.
THANKS FOR STICKING AROUND.
THANKS.
>>> WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A QUICK
BREAK AND WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
>>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
I'M MORGAN RADFORD AND WELCOME
BACK TO SPECIAL COVERAGE OF THE
FIRST DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL
SHAL DEBATE.
WE HEARD A LOT ABOUT HEALTH CARE
DEBATE, THEY EXCHANGED ZINGERS.
COVERAGE FOR ALL.
THEY DISCUSSED THEIR INDIVIDUAL
HEALTH CARE PLANS.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS.
>> WHO HERE WOULD ABOLISH THEIR
PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE IN
FAVOR OF A GOVERNMENT-RUN PLAN?
JUST A SHOW OF HANDS?
[ APPLAUSE ]
ALL RIGHT.
>> THE PRESIDENT WENT ON TV ON
FOX AND SAID PEOPLE'S HEADS
WOULD SPIN WHEN THEY SEE HOW
MUCH IT WOULD BRING DOWN
PHARMACEUTICAL PRICES.
INSTEAD, 2,500 DRUGS HAVE GONE
UP IN DOUBLE DIGITS SINCE HE
CAME INTO OFFICE.
FOR THE REST OF US, FOR THE REST
OF AMERICA, THAT'S WHAT WE CALL
AT HOME ALL FOAM AND NO BEER.
WE GOT NOTHING OUT OF IT.
>> THERE WERE POLITICIANS WHO
SAY IT'S JUST NOT POLL R
POSSIBLE, WE CAN'T DO IT, HAVE A
LOT OF POLITICAL REASONS FOR
THIS.
WHAT THEY'RE REALLY TELLING YOU
IS THEY JUST WON'T FIGHT FOR IT.
>> EVERY WOMAN CAN MAKE HER OWN
DECISIONS ABOUT HER OWN BODY.
AND AS ACCESS TO THE CARE THAT
MAKES THAT POSSIBLE.
>> WOULD YOU REPLACE PRIVATE
INSURANCE?
>> NO, I THINK THE CHOICE IS
FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR ABILITY TO
GET EVERYBODY --
>> PRIVATE INSURANCE IS NOT
WORKING FOR TENS OF MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS.
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THE COPAYS,
THE DEDUCTIBLES, THE PREMIUMS,
THE OUT-OF-POCKET EXPENSES, IT'S
NOT WORKING.
>> INSURANCE COMPANIES LAST YEAR
ALONE SUCKED $23 BILLION OUT OF
THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM, $23
BILLION.
WE HAVE A GIANT INDUSTRY THAT
WANTS OUR HEALTH CARE SYSTEM TO
STAY THE WAY IT IS BECAUSE IT'S
NOT WORKING FOR FAMILIES, BUT IT
SURE AS HECK IS WORKING FOR
THEM.
>> MAKING SURE EVERY SICK
AMERICAN IN THIS COUNTRY IS ABLE
TO GET THE HEALTH CARE THEY
NEED.
I BELIEVE MEDICARE FOR ALL IS
THE WAY TO DO THAT.
>> I AM THE ONLY CANDIDATE HERE
WHO HAS PASSED THE LAW
PROTECTING A WOMAN'S RIGHT OF
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH IN HEALTH
INSURANCE.
>> I WOULD SAY THERE ARE THREE
WOMEN UP HERE WHO FOUGHT HARD
FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS.
>> JUST BECAUSE A WOMAN OR LET'S
ALSO NOT FORGET SOMEONE IN THE
TRANS COMMUNITY, A TRANS FEMALE
IS POOR, DOESN'T MEAN THEY
SHOULDN'T HAVE THE RIGHT TO
EXERCISE THAT RIGHT TO CHOOSE.
AND SO I ABSOLUTELY WOULD COVER
THE RIGHT TO HAVE AN ABORTION.
>> SO, MICHAEL, SALINA, WE WERE
TALKING, JACKIE, ESPECIALLY
ABOUT THE MOMENT DON DELANEY
HAD.
I THOUGHT IT WAS PARTICULARLY
POWERFUL WHEN HE SAID KEEP
WHAT'S WORKING, FIX WHAT'S
BROKEN.
WHAT WAS THE BEST POLICY YOU
HEARD FOR HEALTH CARE TONIGHT?
>> I CAN'T WEIGH IN ON WHAT I
THINK IS THE BEST, BUT I THINK
CANDIDATES TO THIS POINT HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO GET AWAY WITH
HAVING FUZZY OPINIONS WITH WHERE
THEY STABBED ON MEDICARE FOR
ALL.
BERNIE SANDERS INJECTED INTO THE
CONVERSATION IN 2016 AND QUICKLY
POPULARIZED THAT IN OUR CURRENT
ELECTION.
AND WHAT YOU SAW THERE WAS WHEN
BILL De BLASIO AND ELIZABETH
WARREN RAISED THEIR HANDS AS THE
ONLY TWO CANDIDATES IN FAVOR OF
OUTRIGHT BANNING PRIVATE
INSURANCE, THAT WAS PASSING WHAT
WE CALL A PURITY TEST AND
DRAWING THE MOST EXTREME
CONTRAST THAT WE HAVE SEEN SO
FAR.
AND THEN YOU HAVE CANDIDATES
SORT OF FILLING THE SHADES IN
BETWEEN.
IT WAS A SUPER INTERESTING
CONVERSATION THAT THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY SHOULD BE HAVING NOW.
DELANEY IS ALSO CONSISTENT WITH
ESPECIALLY SOMEONE LIKE
ELIZABETH WARREN'S OPERATING
PRINCIPLES AS A WHOLE, WHICH HAS
DRIVEN MOST OF HER POLICY FOR
PRESCRIPTIONS.
DELANEY IS ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THAT WHY HE THOUGHT THAT WAS A
BAD IDEA.
THE JOB OF DEMOCRATS ISN'T
NECESSARILY TO SCRAP EVERYTHING
IN FAVOR OF THESE, BUT INSTEAD
KEEP THINGS THAT ARE WORKING AND
SUPPLEMENT THEM WITH MEDICARE
FOR ALL, SORT OF A JOINT
PRESCRIPTION.
>> I THINK THE QUESTION ABOUT
ELIMINATING PRIVATE INSURANCE
WAS KIND OF INDICATIVE OF THAT
LITMUS TEST.
WHAT DID YOU THINK WHEN YOU SAW
WARREN AND De BLASIO --
>> IT'S ALMOST LIKE A TRICK
QUESTION BECAUSE WHAT SORT OF
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO DO IN A
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE IS DO WHAT De
BLASIO AND WARREN DID, STAKEOUT
YOUR PRINCIPLES AND WHERE YOU
STAND ON YOUR VALUES.
AND MAKE IT VERY CLEAR.
WHAT THEY ARE SAYING IS THAT
PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE IS FOR
PROFIT, AND THAT IS NOT LEADING
TO THE BEST OUTCOMES IN HEALTH
CARE FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES AND
CHILDREN AND PEOPLE WHO NEED
THAT CARE.
AND ANYBODY WHO HAS ACTUALLY
TRIED TO USE THEIR PRIVATE
HEALTH INSURANCE, IF THEY HAVE A
SICK PARENT OR SICK CHILD, WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT LONGER TERM
SITUATIONS OR VERY COSTLY
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS, THIS BECOMES
AN ISSUE THAT YOU CARE ABOUT.
SO PERHAPS YOU LIKE YOUR HEALTH
INSURANCE BECAUSE YOU NEVER HAD
TO USE IT FOR ANYTHING.
AND I THINK THAT THE MORE PEOPLE
ARE GOING BANKRUPT BECAUSE THEY
HAD A MEDICAL CONDITION THAT WAS
UNEXPECTED OR A SICK CHILD, THE
MORE THE ARGUMENT THAT MAYBE WE
SHOULD DO AWAY WITH THE SYSTEM
THAT IS BANKRUPTING FAMILIES, I
THINK THAT CAN RESONATE WHEN
PEOPLE LOOK AT THE REAL WORLD
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> I WANT TO ASK YOU A QUESTION
BECAUSE WHEN WE TOOK IT TO
TWITTER AND WE ASKED IS THERE
ANY TOPIC YOU DIDN'T SEE
TONIGHT, TIM FROM TWITTER
SAID -- EXCUSE ME, ANDRE DAVIS
SAID MENTAL HEALTH.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT WASN'T
ADDRESSED?
>> WHAT'S INTERESTING ABOUT
THAT, ONE OF THE CANDIDATES
ACTUALLY DID SORT OF BRING IT UP
ON THE ISSUE OF SCHOOL VIOLENCE.
RIGHT.
IT DID COME UP A LITTLE BIT.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
I'M NOT SURE THAT THE DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATES, AS THEY TRY TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT'S GOING TO GIVE
ME THE BEST HEADLINE TOMORROW
AFTER THE DEBATE, I'M NOT
NECESSARILY SURE THAT THAT'S THE
MOST JUICIEST, HAVING WORKED ON
PREVIOUSMENT CAMPAIGNS, YOU HAVE
TO, ONE, BRING IN NEW DONORS,
AND TWO, BRING IN NEW POTENTIAL
VOTERS UNDER YOUR TENT THAT CAN
HELP YOU GROW AND BUILD THE TYPE
OF COALITION YOU NEED ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> ANOTHER MOMENT WE SAW THAT
REALLY GOT REACTION WAS THE
QUESTION OF ABORTION AND WOMEN'S
RIGHTS.
DO YOU THINK ANYONE STOOD OUT
PARTICULARLY ON THAT ISSUE?
>> JULIAN CASTRO.
>> WHY DO YOU SAY THAT?
>> HIS ANSWER WAS PERFECT TO ME.
HE EVEN BROUGHT UP TRANS RIGHTS.
>> NOT REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM,
REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE.
I AM A PROFESSIONAL FEMINIST.
I'VE BEEN A PROFESSIONAL
FEMINIST FOR A DECADE.
THE FACT A PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE SAID REPRODUCTIVE
JUSTICE AND NOT RIGHTS IS A VERY
IMPORTANT MOMENT.
THE REASON WHY IS RIGHTS IS
BASICALLY ONLY ABOUT ABORTION.
IT'S USUALLY ONLY ABOUT
PROTECTING THE RIGHTS OF, YOU
KNOW, MORE AFFLUENT WHITE WOMEN.
AND IT OBSCURES THE FACT THAT
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT ACCESS TO
ABORTION.
IT'S ABOUT ACCESS TO BIRTH
CONTROL.
CONTROL TO TREAT UTERINE
FIBROIDS OR OTHER ISSUE THAT IS
NOT PREGNANCY RELATED.
IT IS ALSO RELATED TO MAKING
SURE YOU CAN RAISE YOUR FAMILY
IN A SAFE COMMUNITY, THAT YOU
HAVE ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
THROUGHOUT THAT CHILD'S LIFE AND
YOUR OWN LIFE, AND THAT THEY CAN
RISE UP THE SOCIOECONOMIC
LADDER.
IT IS A MORE POLARISTIC
APPROACH.
TO SERI PRODUCTIVE JUSTICE --
YES.
HILLARY CLINTON DID TALK ABOUT
REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE IN THE 2016
CAMPAIGN IN PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
BUT I CAN'T RECALL HER SAYING
THOSE WORDS, AND THAT'S A BIG
MOMENT.
>> WHAT DID YOU THINK, JACKIE?
DID YOU FEEL LIKE THE ISSUE, THE
WOMEN'S RIGHTS AND THE ISSUE
AROUND ABORTION WAS ADEQUATELY
ADDRESSED BY THE CANDIDATES?
>> I DO, AND I REALLY DID
APPRECIATE AMY KLOBUCHAR AND
GOVERNOR INSLEE.
>> YES.
WAS THERE SLINGING GOING ON?
>> PERHAPS A LITTLE BIT, A BOLD
CLAIM, HE WAS THE ONLY ONE TO
PROTECT ABORTION RIGHTS.
MEANWHILE, THERE ARE CANDIDATES
ON THE STAGE WHO ALSO --
>> LEGISLATION.
>> YEAH.
BUT WHAT I'M ACTUALLY CURIOUS TO
SEE JOE BIDEN ANSWER THAT
QUESTION TOMORROW.
I WAS PRETTY SURPRISED BIDEN'S
NAME DIDN'T COME UP DURING THE
CONVERSATION BECAUSE HE WAS THE
ONE WHO HAS BEEN BEHIND THE
CURVE ESPECIALLY IN THE
CONVERSATION OF REPRODUCTIVE
JUSTICE BECAUSE HE HASN'T SEEMED
TO UNDERSTAND THAT A LOT OF THE
ISSUES AROUND REPRODUCTIVE
JUSTICE DISPROPORTIONATELY
AFFECTS WOMEN OF COLOR.
>> THE HYDE AMENDMENT.
>> EXACTLY.
THERE WAS REPORTING THAT HIS TOP
ADVISORS HAD TO EDUCATE HIM ON
WHY IT WAS IMPORTANT FOR HIM TO
CHANGE HIS MIND AND FLIP-FLOP ON
THE HYDE AMENDMENT BECAUSE IT
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR.
I'M CURIOUS AS TO HOW HE'S GOING
TO ANSWER THAT QUESTION WHEN
HE'S PUT ON THE SPOT TOMORROW.
>> I WANT TO GET YOUR OPINION,
THOUGH, ON THE CONCEPT OF
FLIP-FLOPPING THAT JACKIE
BROUGHT UP.
THERE WAS A VERY POINTED MOMENT
IN TULSI GABBARD AS WELL.
THEY SAID HOLD ON.
WE LOOK AT YOUR RECORD WHEN IT
CAME TO GAY RIGHTS.
SHE WAS ALSO SOMEONE WHO CHANGED
HER POSITION ON ABORTION.
SO WHAT DO YOU THINK AT THIS
STAGE IN THE PROCESS IT DOES
WHEN A CANDIDATE HAS SWITCHED
THEIR POSITION?
>> I MEAN, LOOK, EVERY CANDIDATE
AT SOME POINT IS GOING TO HAVE
TO RESPOND TO PREVIOUS
STATEMENTS, TO PREVIOUS VOTING
RECORDS IF THEY HAVE SERVED IN
CONGRESS, HOUSE OR SENATE.
AND I'M NOT SURPRISED CANDIDATES
ARE GOING TO LOOK AT THE CURRENT
LANDSCAPE, THE DATA, THE
ANALYTICS AND SAY, WAIT A
MINUTE, I'M NOT IN TOUCH WITH
THE PEOPLE THAT I NEED TO HELP
ME WIN THIS THING.
SO PERHAPS I NEED TO PIVOT,
WHICH IS WHY WE SAW JOE BIDEN
ATTEMPT TO MAKE A PIVOT,
ALTHOUGH I DON'T THINK IT WAS
VERY SUCCESSFUL.
I WOULD CAUTION DEMOCRATS, THERE
ARE, I WOULD SAY, A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF AMERICANS WHO WILL
SAY I'M OPEN TO SOME OF THESE
OTHER IDEAS, BUT I'M NOT ALL THE
WAY THERE YET.
AND YOU HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND
ONCE YOU GET OUT OF THIS PRIMARY
PROCESS, IT'S GENERAL ELECTION.
THE DYNAMICS CHANGE.
I'VE DONE IT THREE TIMES.
YOU'RE TALKING TO THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY NOW, NOT JUST THE
LOUDEST VOICES IN YOUR PARTY.
IF YOU ISOLATE TOO MANY PEOPLE,
YOU RISK ALREADY JEOPARDIZING
YOUR ODDS.
>> YOU'RE SAYING VOTERS SHOULD
BE MORE PATIENT?
>> I'M SAYING THAT CANDIDATES
NEED TO BE MORE SMARTER IN HOW
THEY NAVIGATE THIS PROCESS.
>> BUT IS IT ENOUGH TO SAY, I
HAVE EVOLVED?
IS THAT A SATISFACTORY ANSWER
FOR A VOTER?
>> I THINK YOU NEED TO EXPLAIN
WHY AND HOW.
AND I THINK THAT WHAT JOE BIDEN
DID NOT DO YET, TOMORROW TO YOUR
POINT IS A GOOD OPPORTUNITY, IS
TO EXPLAIN EXACTLY HIS
TRANSITION FROM THE WRONG
POSITION ON HYDE TO THE
CORRECTION POSITION OR AT LEAST
THE PARTY'S POSITION ON HYDE.
>> WALK THE VOTERS THROUGH THEIR
THOUGHTS THROUGH THAT?
>> HE NEEDS TO WALK VOTERS
THROUGH THAT PROCESS.
HE CAN'T BE DEFENSIVE AND SAY
THAT'S WHAT I BELIEVE, OR THIS
IS MY PERSONAL BELIEF BECAUSE
I'M A CATHOLIC AND THIS IS MY
FAITH OR MY PERSONAL BELIEF
ABOUT ABORTION AS AN ISSUE, AS
OPPOSED TO A POLICY ISSUE THAT
IMPACTS WOMEN, RIGHT?
BECAUSE I THINK THE DEBATE THAT
WE'RE HAVING RIGHT NOW ABOUT
HYDE AND ABOUT ALL OF THESE
ISSUES RELATED TO WOMEN'S HEALTH
CARE HAS TO DO WITH THE FACT
THAT PEOPLE WHO DON'T PERSONALLY
BELIEVE IN ABORTION WANT TO SAY
THAT YOU CAN'T HAVE ONE.
I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU PERSONALLY
BELIEVE ABOUT ABORTION.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT POLICIES
THAT IMPACT EVERYONE.
SO YOU CAN HAVE YOUR PERSONAL
BELIEVES AND YOUR PERSONAL
FAITH, BUT THE POLICY
PRESCRIPTIONS THAT IMPACT ALL
AMERICAN CITIZENS SHOULD UPHOLD
THE RIGHTS TO THE SUPREME COURT
AND THAT ARE IN THE
CONSTITUTION.
THAT ESSENTIALLY IS THE DEBATE
RIGHT NOW, AND I THINK THAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ABORTION
SPECIFICALLY, BUT I THINK IT
ACTUALLY TOUCHES ON OTHER
ISSUES, TOO.
>> WHICH IS INTERESTING.
WHERE DO THE ROLE OF PERSONAL
BELIEVES COME IN AND PERSONAL
CONNECTION?
WE WERE TALKING A LOT DURING THE
BREAK.
WHEN WE HEARD THOSE COLLEGE
STUDENTS, NO, WE DIDN'T LIKE
WHEN WE HEARD BETO SPEAK
SPANISH.
NO ONE SAID --
>> HE DIDN'T ANSWER THE
QUESTION.
I THINK IT'S THE WAY YOU DO IT.
IT'S MORE THE METHOD THAN THE
FACT YOU'RE DOING IT.
IF HE HAD STARTED SORT OF WITH A
MORE NATURAL SEGUE INTO THE
SPANISH, I THINK IT WOULD HAVE
COME ACROSS MORE AUTHENTIC.
IT SEEMED TO BE -- HE JUMPED
RIGHT INTO IT.
OH, LET ME SHOW YOU THIS TRICK I
CAN DO, EVERYBODY.
>> A TRICK.
>> YES, I THINK IT WAS A METHOD
FOR HIM TO SHOW OFF AS OPPOSED
TO CONNECT.
>> WHAT DID YOU THINK, JACKIE,
DO YOU THINK IT WAS A CONNECTIVE
MECHANISM?
>> I DEFINITELY THINK IT WAS A
PROP HE THOUGHT OF AHEAD OF
TIME.
I SAW ARTICLES ON STRATEGIZING
AND BRAINSTORMING CAMPAIGNS TO
GET CANDIDATES VIRAL MOMENTS AND
HOW THEY WERE GOING TO PUSH THAT
OUT AND MAKE IT GO EVEN MORE
VIRAL.
BUT THOSE KIDS WHO THEY SPOKE
WITH IS MORE IN TUNE -- I THINK
HAVE A PULSE ON THE AUTHENTICITY
TEST THAN THE UNDER 30 AGE
RANGE.
IT WAS CLEAR THAT THEY SAW, THEY
SAW SOME PEOPLE PANDERING TO THE
COMMUNITY, AND OTHERS LIKE
JULIAN CASTRO BEING AUTHENTIC
AND GENUINE.
I THINK THAT IS WHAT IS GOING TO
BE SO IMPORTANT IN TERMS OF EVEN
JOE BIDEN ADDRESSING A FLIP-FLOP
OR SOMEONE APOLOGIZING OR
EXPLAINING THEIR EVOLUTION.
AT THE END OF THE DAY THAT'S WHY
OBAMA WAS SO SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE
PEOPLE FELT THAT AUTHENTICITY.
>> I THINK YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO
HAVE A PERSONAL BELIEF AS A
CANDIDATE AND STILL RECOGNIZE AS
A PRESIDENT, I'M SUPPOSED TO
REPRESENT AND LEAD THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY.
THEREFORE, I RECOGNIZE IF I'M
NOT IN SYNC WITH WHERE THE REST
OF THE COUNTRY IS GOING, I STILL
HAVE TO LEAD WITH WHAT YOU GUYS
EXPECT.
I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA, TO YOUR
POINT, WAS EXTREMELY EFFECTIVE
AT DOING THAT.
THESE ARE MY PERSONAL BELIEFS,
BUT I RECOGNIZE THAT THE REST OF
THE COUNTRY -- AND I NEED TO TRY
TO MEET THE COUNTRY WHERE THEY
ARE.
I THINK JOE BIDEN NEEDS TO SORT
OF ARTICULATE THAT TOMORROW.
>> HOW DO YOU DO THAT
STYLISTICALLY SO YOU STILL
CONVEY AUTHENTICITY?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S BIBLICAL
FOR JOE BIDEN TO SAY, LOOK, I'M
A CATHOLIC.
MANY PEOPLE CONSIDER THEMSELVES
CHRISTIANS.
I UNDERSTAND THE IMPORTANCE OF
WOMEN'S REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS AND
I WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M ON THE
SIDE OF WOMEN, SIMPLE.
>> THERE IS A FINE LINE THERE
BECAUSE WHEN YOU APOLOGIZE ONCE,
JOE BIDEN COULD BE A POLL
JAY
ZING FOR EVERYTHING.
>> I DO THINK THAT'S THE TRICK
WHEN YOU HAVE A LONG RECORD.
WHEN YOU HAVE THIS DECADES LONG
RECORD, YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
LOT TO EXPLAIN.
THE CRIME BILL IS ANOTHER THING
THAT'S GOING TO COME UP.
IT CAME UP FOR HILLARY CLINTON
EVEN THOUGH SHE WASN'T IN
OFFICE, BUT JOE BIDEN WROTE THAT
CRIME BILL.
THERE ARE A LOT OF BLACK PEOPLE
IN PRISON AS A LULT.
HE'S GOING TO HAVE TO SPEAK TO
THAT CONSTITUENCY AND EXPLAIN, I
DIDN'T SEE THESE CIRCUMSTANCES.
I DIDN'T FORESEE IT.
>> THE EVOLUTION.
>> THERE'S A LOT MORE EXPLAINING
TO DO, ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES
TO BIDEN TOMORROW.
LET'S SAVE THAT FOR TOMORROW.
RIGHT NOW
>>> SIR MICHAEL ALEX AND
ANGELINA ARE BACK WITH US NOW.
TOMORROW THERE ARE SOME BIG
NAMES ON THE DEBATE STAGE.
WHAT ARE YOU GUYS LOOKING TO
HEAR TOMORROW?
>> LOOK, JOE BIDEN, IN MY
OPINION, HAS THE MOST TO LOSE.
AND I GUARANTEE YOU THAT BERNIE
SANDERS IS GOING TO COME VERY
HARD FOR JOE BIDEN.
BUT I THINK PEOPLE FORGET JOE
BIDEN IS A VERY TALENTED DEBATER
HIMSELF.
I THINK BIDEN HAS TO PUT HIMSELF
AS I AM THE BEST PERSON TO GO
HEAD TO HEAD WITH TRUMP.
WHEN THEY TALK ABOUT THESE
ISSUES, IF I WAS ADVISING THEM,
I WOULD SAY BRING UP YOUR YEARS
WITH OBAMA.
I DID THIS, I WAS WORKING ON
ISSUES YOU GUYS WERE TALKING
ABOUT BEFORE.
I WAS THERE.
IF YOU ELECT ME, I'LL MAKE THEM
COME TO FRUITION.
>> WHAT ABOUT FIREWORKS, ALEX,
DO YOU EXPECT THERE TO BE MORE
ZINGER TOMORROW NIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> WHY DO YOU SAY THAT?
>> YOU HAVE THE FRONT RUNNER ON
THE STAGE AND THREE OF THE OTHER
TOP FIVE CANDIDATES THAT ARE
RIGHT BEHIND HIM AND THEY ALL
WANT TO TAKE HIM.
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO FEEL IS
MAYOR PETE AND BIDEN HAVE BOTH
HAD ROCKY FEW WEEKS.
PETE IS DEFINITELY GOING TO GET
A SENSE ABOUT THE COP WHO SHOT A
BLACK MAN AND HIS RESPONSE TO
IT.
BIDEN IS GOING TO BE TAKING IT
FROM ALL SIDES.
EVERYONE IS GOING TO BE
WATCHING.
DOES HE HAVE A SENIOR MOMENT?
DOES HE LOSE IT?
DOES HE GET DEFENSIVE?
BECAUSE EVERYONE IS EVALUATING
HOW WILL HE LOOK AGAINST ON THE
STAGE AGAINST DONALD TRUMP.
IN IN MAKING AN ELECTABILITY
ARGUMENT, YOU CAN'T FALTER.
>> YOU'VE BEEN HERE, YOU'VE BEEN
THROUGH THIS PROCESS BEFORE.
HOW DOES HAVING THE FRONT
RUNNER, DEBATING THE FRONT
RUNNER, HOW DOES THAT CHANGE
YOUR STRATEGY?
>> I THINK OBVIOUSLY WE DIDN'T
HAVE THIS MANY PEOPLE RUNNING,
SO IT'S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
BECAUSE THERE ARE MORE PEOPLE
ALL AT THE SAME TIME AS OPPOSED
TO JUST BERNIE SANDERS TRYING TO
TAKE DOWN HILLARY CLINTON WHO
WAS THE FRONT RUNNER IN 2016.
THE STRATEGY IS STICK TO YOUR
POINTS.
DON'T TRY TO DO ANYTHING THAT'S
NEW.
>> DO YOU LOSE PASSION WHEN YOU
DO THAT?
>> PERHAPS.
BUT THE CHALLENGE OF ANY
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN IS COMBINE
THE POLICY AND PASSION TOGETHER.
THAT'S WHY ELIZABETH WARREN HAS
BEEN RISING.
SHE'S ALWAYS HAD THE PASSION.
ADDING THE POLICY RELEASES THAT.
TOMORROW IT'S HOW DOES JOE BIDEN
RESPOND TO THE ATTACKS THAT ARE
GOING TO COME TO HIS WAY
INEVITABLY.
AND WHETHER OR NOT HE'S GOING TO
BE DISMISSIVE OF SOME OF THE
OTHER CANDIDATES AND WOMEN ON
THE STAGE.
I'M LOOKING FOR AN AWKWARD JOE
BIDEN GAFF.
>> OKAY.
YOU SAY AWKWARD.
ALEX, YOU SAID SENIOR MOMENT.
IS AGE GOING TO BE A FACTOR
TOMORROW NIGHT?
>> YOU HAVE PETE BUTTIEGIEG WHO
IS 37 RIGHT NEAR JOE BIDEN WHO
IS 76.
BERNIE SANDERS IS 77.
HE IS HALF THEIR AGE.
IF NOT, THEY ARE GOING TO TRY TO
DO LITTLE THINGS BIG AND SMALL
TO TRY TO SHOW THAT THEY ARE
YOUNGER, MORE VIBRANT.
AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, BERNIE IS
GOING TO WATCH HOW CRANKY HE
GETS.
BIDEN, THEY'RE GOING TO SEE DOES
HE MEANDER, DOES HE GET OFF
POINT, DOES HE NOT QUITE MAKE
THE SENTENCES CONNECT.
>> MICHAEL?
>> THERE IS SOMETHING ABOUT AGE
AND WISDOM THAT I THINK WE ALL
VALUE, AND I WILL REMIND YOU
GUYS OF RONALD REAGAN.
IF YOU RECALL, HE HAD THAT ONE
LINER ABOUT I WILL NOT, MY
OPPONENT AND HIS YOUTHFULNESS.
JOE BIDEN NEEDS TO HAVE THAT
KIND OF MOMENT IF SOMEONE DOES
ATTEMPT TO ATTACK HIM BECAUSE OF
THE HIS AGE BEING 76, I BELIEVE.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT WHAT MOST
VOTERS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT, IT'S
NOT AGE.
IT'S WHO CAN DEFEAT TRUMP.
IT'S NOT AGE, NOT GENDER.
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS, WHO CAN GO
TOE TO TOE WITH DONALD TRUMP.
RIGHT NOW MOST PEOPLE THINK THAT
INDIVIDUAL IS JOE BIDEN.
THAT'S A HUGE ADVANTAGE GOING
INTO TOMORROW NIGHT.
>> I THINK HE'S THE DEFAULT
CHOICE.
HE'S A PLACE HOLDER.
I THINK HE'S THE PLACE HOLDER
FOR PEOPLE WHO DON'T LIKE TRUMP.
THEY WANT TO WIN.
AND HE IS A KNOWN QUANTITY.
THERE ARE SO MANY CANDIDATES
THAT YOU'VE NEVER HEARD OF
BEFORE, SO YOU'RE JUST LEARNING
ABOUT THEM.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE NOW LIKE
JULIAN CASTRO AND FOLLOW HIM
MORE CLOSELY AND THAT MAYBE
PULLS AWAY FROM BIDEN A BIT.
>> WE SAW THE GLOVES COME OFF
TONIGHT.
WILL THEY COME OFF TOMORROW?
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR STICKING
AROUND ALL NIGHT, ALL FOUR HOURS
OF THIS.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU
AGAIN TOMORROW.
AND AGAIN, THANK YOU TO JACKIE,
THANK YOU TO OUR ENTIRE GROUP OF
COLLEGE STUDENTS.
THAT'S ALL FOR US IN NEW YORK.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU
TOMORROW RIGHT BACK HERE
STARTING AT 8:00 P.M. EASTERN
WITH OUR DEBATE PRESHOW.
THEN NIGHT TWO FROM MIAMI KICKS
OFF AT 9:00 P.M. EASTERN.
YOU'RE LOOKING RIGHT HERE AT
FACES YOU WILL SEE ON THE STAGE
UNDER THOSE BRIGHT LIGHTS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR WATCHING.
WE'LL BE WITH YOU TOMORROW.
HAVE A GREAT NIGHT.